All of these trades right now are so
sort of knife edge. Tech is a much more
nuanced sector. [music] Now,
>> if you look at places where we've
outperformed, it's been the physical
over the digital.
>> The tactical case for a continued
[music] bounce from here is pretty
strong. I would say
>> we think we're going to go back to a
high quality large cap trade.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh. Lisa
Abramowitz and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, gripped by tech [music]
anxiety. The stronger than expected jobs
report failing to ignite an economy
market rally as investors are pushing
out the prospect of further interest
rate cuts from the Fed. And a new wave
[music] of AI anxiety is beginning to
spread to real estate services from
software to wealth management and now
[music] real estate. Yesterday, CBRE and
Kushman Wakefield saw the biggest
plunges that they had seen during the
peak of the pandemic when the world had
shut down and offices were dead. [music]
That gives you a sense of just how
significant some of these draw downs
were on the fear of guess what
disruption that would eradicate their
business model. I keep going back to how
can we understand if the business model
is going to zero [music] or going to a
very small multiple in the very near
future or in five years. Does it matter?
How do you prove the unknown? And this
is the technology that we're facing
right now that poses [music] that
existential threat.
>> It's difficult to prove the negative.
You can't sit here and say it won't
happen. A lot of people think it will or
at least they're worried it will.
Management teams [music] are super
frustrated about this right now.
Analysts of the companies are as well as
this just cascades through financial
markets one wave after another. It was a
really salty quote from the team [music]
over at JP Morgan. I actually really
enjoyed it. Generalist money flows
responding to the rapid AI product rate
of change dynamic are overwhelming the
deeper [music] thinking fundamental
software sector specialists. That's the
story of the last week
>> and that's the reason why you've seen a
lot of push back and frankly a lot of
buying in some of the sectors that have
gotten most beaten up by these waves of
AI fears that are washing through
things. You know the real question here
is how do you create a competitive mode?
And you asked this question yesterday
[music] uh about some of the wealth
management spheres. How do you create a
mode around your business? Is it just to
get big? Is it just may adopt some
[music] of these tools quickly enough?
Is it a certain type of personnel? We
don't have a clear sense because we
don't have a clear sense of what the
capacity of AI is going to be. Not
necessarily tomorrow, but say in 6
months or a year.
>> They're upset because they think they've
already got one. What they can't do is
put a motor around the stock. And that's
the problem for the stock market at the
moment. Futures are positive by 0.3. The
next stop is the data. 8:30 Eastern
time. Jobless claims following a much
stronger than anticipated jobs report.
But check out the reaction to the job
numbers yesterday. We faded that move so
fast. The numbers were [music] really
decent and then you look at things like
the Russell lower on the session. You
look at the US dollar flat on the
session. What happened yesterday?
>> First of all, the breath of some of
these job gains was pretty narrow. It
was healthcare [music]
uh first and foremost which isn't
necessarily a a statement on the roaring
uh exuberance in the economy. Then you
look at the downward revisions and then
you start to look at some of these
seasonal aspects that come together as
TD security said in [music] a perfect
storm that gave a really good look to
this payrolls report. People kind of
shrugged it off and said let's [music]
see what next month brings because
ultimately this isn't necessarily giving
us confidence that [music] we're not
necessarily just out of the woods but
they were actually on a reaceleration
path.
>> So next hour got a fantastic lineup this
morning but next hour [music] David
Tinsley of Bank of America on the Bank
of America Institute consumer checkpoint
[music] report. So, we've talked a long,
long time about the K-shaped economy,
low-inccome versus high income. High
income, great, low income really
struggling. Middle income and the gap
between middle and the top starting to
open out. That is of concern. And that's
something David [music] will talk to a
little bit later.
>> You know what's a really good example of
that? LVMH and Gucci versus Hermes. LVMH
and Gucci [music] catered increasingly
to the middle class, the aspirational
buyer, and they are getting hammered
because they are losing market share.
Hermes with your $10,000 Birkin bags
crushing it and able to raise prices.
And that gives you a perfect example of
where [music] some of the pain is really
bleeding into.
>> And McDonald's leaning into value,
capturing the trade down from the middle
to the low income.
>> They dropped prices last year uh by more
than 15% on a slew of items in order to
drive traffic. And they saw that this is
similar to Pepsi. They [music] see a
similar type of environment taking place
this year even as that Birkin bag is
getting more expensive. Yeah, that
Birkin bag was never on my radar anyway.
>> To be fair, it was never on mine either.
>> Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by 0.3%. [music] Coming up this hour,
Judian Emanuel of EverOR as markets
shrug off stronger than expected
economic data. Sharon Bell of Goldman
Sachs with European equities quietly
outperforming and the Republican
Congressman French Hill as the divide
widens on Capitol Hill over tariffs. We
begin this hour with stocks on the brink
of fresh all-time highs. Julian Emanuel
of Evercore writing, "Although
valuations remain extended and market
leadership is in flux, the hallmarks of
the end of a bull market are not
present." Julian joins us now for more.
Julian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What are the ingredients needed for the
end of a bull market? Uh so first is
signs of a recession. That is the most
typical top and you know as choppy as
the data is and as much of the negatives
that you can unpack you know the the
fact is we had a strong jobs report. Um
and then the others would be uh either a
Fed hiking rates which no way, no how,
no set of economic data will that happen
uh prior to the midterms at the very
earliest pressure on the long end. I
mean I think as investors maybe the
biggest surprise is how incredibly
sedate US 10year yields have been when
the rest of the world's yields have been
exploding higher for months and months
now. And then of course the last one and
the the one that we think is going to be
seen at some point in this cycle is
really true investor FOMO driving, you
know, palpable overvaluation
along with a very uh substantial capital
market surge. And from our point of
view, the FOMO over the last two months
has been anywhere but stocks. It's been
in gold and silver. And you see what's
happened to gold and silver in the last
several weeks.
>> Well, let's focus on stocks. Is there
some FOMO in Staples?
>> It's extraordinary. It's absolutely
extraordinary. And and if you you think
about year-to- date value outperforming,
which isn't necessarily a positive look
on a go forward basis for markets, uh
staples screaming higher, and I would
characterize it as FOMO, particularly
when you see, you know, snack food price
cuts in front of the Super Bowl driving
stocks marketkedly higher. um you know,
good on them. Uh but also financials
underperforming at the same time.
Extraordinary. That message tends to say
recession ahead. But actually there's a
much more nuanced story. It is really a
manifestation of this AI disruption
trade.
>> That's the place to hide.
>> Stay pulled.
>> It it is. So when we started coverage on
AI almost three years ago now, has it
really been three years? It seems like a
century. Um, we took every industry,
every company, every job and parsed it
along these vectors about where what
jobs and what industries were most
likely to be disrupted. We all knew
several years ago software was among the
highest. Well, look what's happened to
software, the legal profession, but also
the financial profession. And lo and
behold, you look at year-to- date, those
are the ones that are getting hurt the
most performance-wise. But on the other
side of the ledger, the ones likely to
be least disrupted,
metals and mining, agriculture, and and
and you know, consumer staples uh
services not far behind the winners.
>> Do you want to hide from the disruption
or do you want to chase it? Do you want
to chase the selloff? Go into some of
these stocks that have gotten beaten up
and say, "You guys are throwing the baby
out with the bath water." In our mind,
it's getting overdone. Uh we are
inclined to dip our toes. And again,
remember when you're doing things that
are counter to the trend, you have to be
careful. You have to be disciplined. You
have to be prepared to have a battle
plan and maybe add on weakness. Uh but
from our uh mind you know we do think in
areas like software in areas where you
know lots of stocks have heavy heavy
short interest you do want want to dip
your toe in
>> as an investor how do you prove to
John's point earlier counterfactual I
mean how do you even begin to assess
what the actual risk is now and what it
could be in six months then come up with
some sort of business model and an
understanding of what that moat looks
like. Well, it it's incredibly difficult
and and it explains why first off, if
you look at the start of this bull
market in October of 2022, the only two
sectors that have outperformed the S&P
500 have been communication services and
information technology. The place where
the hyperscalers reside, the place where
AI central I is located. So that
explains part of the bifurcation. But in
my mind, a lot of it is just, you know,
this whole idea of the embrace uh of AI
and the potential for it to transform.
And we do not believe that AI is a
discrete job killer. We think it it
augments it transforms jobs and we're
living it at Evercore ISI.
>> So what's gripping us right now? Do you
think this is just the anthropic road
show, just the big big enthusiasm ahead
of the IPO a little bit later this year
and all the headlines just to entice
some attention?
>> Well, look, we saw these road shows
throughout 1999 and into 2000 and they
were real and when the the stocks came
out and and this speaks to actually the
greater rationality that we're seeing in
capital markets now. Think about it from
the credit side. High yield technology
credits have widened dramatically
because there's a a chance that there
won't be survivors of the smaller
investment grade credits. You just had a
hundredyear bond issued.
>> Eaten up.
>> Eaten up. The last time that happened
was 1997 in the height of the technology
boom. And guess what? The NASDAQ rallied
another 400% before the top.
>> So, let's talk about the index level
stuff. The year-end median forecast in
our survey here at Bloomberg for the S&P
500 is something close to 7,600. How do
we get 10% upside at the index level
market cap weighted without tech
regaining leadership?
>> You can't
full stop. A and to be clear, we are
very heartened by the embracer of this
rotation. It's very normal in in the
start of the new year for the Lagards to
outperform, but the math at 54%
of the weight among communication
services, consumer discretionary, and
infoch means you you got to lead with
the date that you brought to the prom in
the first place,
>> which is tech. Julian is going to stick
with us. Julian Emanuel there of
Evercore. The equity market at the
moment positive by a third of 1% on the
S&P. If you strip out the muscle of tech
and focus on the equal way, four
consecutive days of gains, all-time
highs.
>> And partly it's because people are
hiding out some of the consumer staples
and some of these other areas that are
physical tangible goods that you cannot
replace with a computer.
>> Let's keep an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Ronnie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. US Energy
Secretary Christopher Wright says
Washington can help Venezuela raise its
oil, gas, and electricity output this
year. Speaking in Caracus, Wright said
the Trump administration will issue new
licenses for businesses to buy
Venezuelan products and invest in its
economy. Wright is the most senior US
official to make a public visit since
the capture of Nicholas Maduro.
The Fed signaling plans to abandon some
of the confidential warnings it
previously sent to banks to improve
operations. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the remaining flags will focus
more on immediate risks to a bank's
financial health and less on processes
and procedures. Banks have argued that
Fed supervision has become too complex
and expensive. [music]
Apple's long planned upgrade to Siri has
run into snags during recent tests.
Sources telling us Apple is now working
to spread the improvements across future
versions instead of in an operating
system upgrade slated for next month.
Testing has found Siri cannot properly
process queries, [music] takes too long
to handle requests, and faces accuracy
issues. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonnie
later. appreciate the update [music] as
well on Venezuela and Marie on the
ground of Caracus. Isn't that just the
most Amarie thing, Gaba to go to
Venezuela?
>> If there is a sort of unstable land that
[clears throat] seems full of conflict
and potential for violence, Amarie
[music] is there.
>> My mom messaged me and she said,
"Where's Anmarie?" And I said,
"Venezuela." And she said, "Vacation."
It's like [music] vacation
>> for her. It is.
>> Maybe. Maybe for Anarie.
>> You know, it gives you that zip, that
vigor.
>> Hopefully we catch up with her going
into the weekend. Up next on the
program, [music] challenging Trump's
tariffs. It was just announced our trade
deficit has gone down. Now if you go
down one point, two points, you're like
a genius. Gone down 78%. That's because
of tariffs.
>> Up next on [music] the program, we'll
catch up with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
Next stop for the data later on this
morning, 8:30 Eastern time. Jobless
claims in focus following a very, very
good payroll report and upside surprise.
Payrolls rising [music] the most in more
than a year. Emphasis matters here.
Where do you put the emphasis on the
green shoots in manufacturing jobs
[music] or the fact that healthcare is
still doing all the heavy lifting adding
the most jobs since 2020?
>> Problem is you have to kind of include
both points which is the reason why I
really was struck by what TD securities
had to say that maybe we're no longer at
risk of a major downdraft in the overall
economy. But this isn't a screaming
recovery that really [music] speaks to
some of the exuberance that people were
talking about. So that's the
uncomfortable middle ground that's
incredibly unsatisfying and inconclusive
that I can give you this. Do we see some
signs of stabilization? Maybe we do over
the past few months. I hope we do. I
hope we see more of the same a little
bit later this [music] morning when we
get jobless claims. Equity futures on
the S&P positive by a third of 1% on the
NASDAQ up [music] by 27. And there's
your out performance once again on the
Russell. It resumes higher by 0.57%.
[music] Under Savanis this morning
challenging Trump's tariffs.
>> It was just announced how a trade
deficit has gone down. Now, if you go
down one point, two points, you're like
a genius. Gone down 78%. That's because
of tariffs. So, we're we're doing
numbers that nobody thought were
possible. 78% reduction in our trade
deficit. And next year, we're going to
be positive if uh we keep it all going.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Six
House Republicans crossing party lines,
voting to block some of President
Trump's tariffs on Canada. The president
responding in a post on truth social
writing any Republican the votes against
terrorists will suffer serious qu
consequences come election time.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington for more. Tyler, welcome
to the program. The pressure starting to
build down in Washington.
>> It definitely is, John. I mean, this
marks the starkkest political push back
that we've seen yet to one of President
Trump's signature economic policies as
we head into the midterms. Now to be
sure this measure of next has to go to
the Senate where it actually really
likely could pass. But President Trump
is going to veto any such measure and
then it would take twothirds majority in
Congress to override his veto. So this
type of legislation is probably not
going to become law. But it underscores
that mounting pressure as Republicans
are playing defense according to polling
on the top issue for voters which is of
course the economy. And it's really
interesting when you look at the six
Republicans that voted against the
president here because they represent
different factions of the party. Some
are yes retiring but others have long
been feuding with President Trump over
his agenda. Some are citing specific
concerns for their states like one
lawmaker in Washington talking about how
crossber traffic has declined when it
comes to the tariffs for Canada. And
then others are in some really critical
primaries in California, in
Pennsylvania, where they represent
battleground districts. And when it
comes to the uh time for November's
election, they're going to have to
appeal to that broader voter base. Now,
one thing's for sure, President Trump is
not going to support any of these
candidates in the primary. You read part
of his post on Truth Social there where
he is threatening these consequences and
he could follow through. We have to keep
in mind he has an unprecedented $483
million war chest that he has amassed
and that he is going to use when it
comes to targeting some of these
lawmakers. Now, John, uh overall here,
we have to keep in mind this specific
measure is targeting Canada. Comes at an
interesting time, of course, quite
timing as the US and Canada escalate
tensions. Bloomberg News reporting
yesterday, President Trump is privately
mulling exiting the US MCA. But this is
going to be the first in what is
expected to be a series of votes. We're
expecting the next one later this month
that's going to target Mexico's tariffs
in particular.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Middle-
inome workers are being squeezed and
obviously the individuals that are in a
race for the midterms are being squeezed
as well. Is there enough runway? The US
economy is a super tanker. You're not
going to change it overnight. These
problems aren't going to go away, but
can they improve over the next nine
months? Well, tariffs is the number one
way that they could improve pretty
quickly and that's the reason why this
is the target and that's the reason why
I wonder how much some of these
lawmakers are going to be cowed by the
threats that we heard from President
Trump.
>> Julian Emanuel of Eva ISI still with us
around the table. Julian, tariffs were
last year's story and it wasn't all
year. It was a heartbeat in April. Does
it come back on the table this year?
>> So, it is not going to go away
completely. Okay, remember we have an
April meeting out there with Shei in
China and the subtext is going to be
tariffs. We've had overtures and and
friction with Mark Carney uh and
obviously uh you know seemingly better
relationships with Shinebam in Mexico.
But this is going to be a persistent
story. Now what's happened is again as
we've seen time and time throughout not
just this bull market but through our
generations is that corporate America
has become very adept at dealing with
the problem whether it's you know some
pass through some diversion of supply
chains or or you know just eating a
little bit at the margin the the fact is
is that tariffs and this is part of why
the market has been rallying rallying as
relentlessly as it has were have become
a lesser issue not a disappearing issue
but a lesser issue than we all thought a
year ago
>> so markets shouldn't have feelings but
investors do and when we were in Davos
Switzerland the Europeans were clearly
offended by some of the language being
used about the continent and the
approach of this administration when you
speak to investors outside of the US
this was the only game in town and in
many ways it still is some of the names
listed on the S&P 500 but are you
sensing an aversion to investing that
additional dollar that additional pound
additional euro in US equities.
>> So I I I think the reality is and and
the two things have driven the the
overweight over the last decade in US
equities. Number one, the lead pole
position in the technology revolution
which has only accelerated since chat
GPT came to the public for and number
two very importantly a persistently
strengthening dollar. Okay, that ended a
year ago. We think there's further
dollar weakness. We think this is a a
you know longtailed multi-year
phenomenon. And from that perspective, I
it's it's you know sort of rational to
gently rebalance one's portfolio you
again why one of the reasons that the
Japanese NK225 despite soaring yields or
perhaps because of soaring yields um has
rallied as it has. We think that this is
going to go on for a while, but we don't
think the next really intense episode of
rebalancing like we saw in the first
quarter of last year happens until the
AI trade reaches a crescendo which we
think is still well off into the future.
Some of what you're saying echoes what
George Saraveillos of Deutsche Bank
wrote in a note yesterday where he that
he called the safe haven myth and he
talked about how increasingly uh dollar
dollar exposure hasn't been an offset to
a riskoff move and as a result the less
attractive the dollar is as a portfolio
hedge the more incentive there is to
reduce dollar exposure. Is that kind of
the dynamic that you see out there right
now? Well, and if you think about it,
like what's what's been very curious
about the last year in particular is how
correlations amongst assets have been
shifting intensely.
Take the metals for example. You know,
last year at this time and into the
middle of the year was like how can it
be that gold and the S&P 500 are both
going up in lockdeck? Who knows? It must
be something systemic. And then it was
and then it was like gold is going
parabolic. there must be a problem with
the S&P 500. And over the last month or
so, it's gold and silver crashing. There
must be a problem with the S&P 500.
Well, guess what? There isn't. It's just
a world that continues to be having the
good problem of so much liquidity.
>> You know, the liquidity right now is
shifting and it's not shifting away from
the US. It's just going more more
intensely toward Asia. And you see the
Asian equity markets outperforming at
the fastest pace to start a year going
back to at least 2000. uh in some of the
data that we're looking at. I'm just
wondering is this a sign that people
view big tech as in Asia as taking the
lead right now over big tech in the
United States?
>> Well, so and part part of the discomfort
people have had with the S&P 500 is 40
plus% of the weight in 10 stocks. Well,
guess what? Go to go to Korea and you're
getting close to 50% of the weight in
two stocks.
>> Two stocks.
>> Yeah. Uh um but that is a manifestation
again in our mind of the secular
importance of the AI revolution.
>> Jillian, it's good to see you breaking
it down. Thank you, sir. Julian Emanuel
there of Evercore and the AI disruption
and division we're seeing in the equity
market. The FX piece of this is so
important. It was win-win for the
foreign investor. You've got the price
appreciation off the back of the
dominance of US tech and then on the
draw down, you got the dollar
appreciation that was the natural hedge.
So, you just took the exposure on the
equity side and on the currency side.
And now you're starting to question
that. And if you're a domestic investor
in say the UK or Europe, it's a
different decision to make at the
moment.
>> Yeah. And this is a reason why I found
George Saravellos's note so interesting.
And it's not necessarily that no longer
is this a haven status or reserve
currency. It's that ultimately it isn't
going to offer that hedge, that
portfolio hedge. And right now,
everybody wants to find a portfolio
hedge. To Julian's point, there ain't
one. And that's what it seems like
increasingly, except for maybe some
physical assets that you're going to
hold for a long time. But that's the
dirty secret. And so it doesn't send
everybody to the same place to get that
kind of offset.
>> So the word you'll hear all the time,
diversification. And I know it's
frustrating because it sounds so cliche
sometimes, but you're about to hear it
again repeatedly throughout this year.
>> Diversification means what though,
right? Diversification of locations,
diversification of industries,
diversification of vulnerabilities to AI
disruption. It means a lot of different
things. It's not easy. [music] And
people don't like not easy things, but
here we are.
>> Just hardened staples seems to be
>> until it's overpriced and then go back
into software. Some people think we're
already down. Coming up on the program,
Sharon Bal of Goldman on the state of
the South America trade. Plus, Yahara
has your morning mover as shares of
Cisco falling as higher memory costs
weigh on the company's outlook. That
stock is down by almost 8%.
Two days no gains on the S&P 500. This
morning, we're looking to change that.
Up by a third of 1% on the S&P. A
stronger than expected payrolls report
failing to ignite a market [music] cap
index rally on the S&P 500. But the
equal weight keeps doing what the equal
weight's [music] been doing through most
of this year. Four days of gains and
alltime highs. Futures up across the
board this morning. The Nasdaq higher by
0.3. Outperformance on the Russell
higher by 0.6 with an update on some
single names. Your morning movers. Yhira
has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing Cisco shares
under pressure this morning down 7 12%
[music] after it became the latest
company to warn that rising prices on
memory [music] chips will eat into
profits this quarter. That matters
because Cisco is the large is the
world's largest maker of networking
equipment and it uses those components
AC across a wide [music] range of
products that overshadowing what was
otherwise a solid report with the sales
outlook coming in strong due to Cisco's
role in the AI buildout. Meanwhile,
moving on to app 11. The sell-off here
catching some analysts offguard because
it posted a better thanex expected
outlook beat earnings and [music] yet
the stock is down 5.3%. Some on Wall
Street calling this a clearing event. So
basically [music] strong results but not
strong enough to clear up the bigger
debate with uh concerns over AI
disrupting software [music] still
hanging over the story. And we end on
Fastly. This is a company that makes the
behindthe-scenes technology that [music]
speeds up online content. Shares are
ripping higher after it gave a
blockbuster outlook for 2026. It expects
earnings to [music] be uh double what
analysts had expected. So, it is the top
gainer on the NASDAQ this morning and up
40%. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yahara in the next
hour. On our radar this morning,
President Trump's tariff policy
suffering their strongest political blow
so far. Six Republicans crossing the
aisle to pass legislation rejecting
levies on Canadian goods as concerns
mount on Capitol Hill over the upcoming
midterms. Elsewhere, real estate service
stocks plunging by the most since 2020,
becoming the latest sector hit by
widespread AI fears. Investors remaining
wary of companies potentially vulnerable
to new AI tools that could accelerate
automation. And finally, turning to
energy, the Trump administration making
a special trip to Venezuela as the
United States looks to strike a deal on
the largest oil reserves in the world.
Energy Secretary Chris Wright saying US
plans for Venezuela's crude will benefit
both countries.
We can drive a dramatic increase in
Venezuelan oil production, in Venezuelan
natural gas production, in Venezuelan
electricity production. All of these are
to increase the job opportunities, the
wages, and the quality of life for all
of the Venezuelans.
>> And Marie back on tour. She joins us now
from Caracus for more. And Marie, just
describe what you've seen in the last 24
hours.
>> Well, it's been almost surreal being on
this trip, Jonathan. Of course, we're in
Caracus, Venezuela, a country, a city
where the leader was captured by US
forces at the start of the year. And
then some five weeks later, we touch
down the first time we've seen the
highest ranking US government official
come to this country. The hype on the
ground. People are comparing this to
when the US left in 2019 when the
embassy they decided to close their
diplomatic uh overtures here. And also
someone else was telling me they were
comparing it to when Bill Clinton last
came to this country in 1997, of course,
the year before Yugo Chavez took over.
So it's been quite a surreal experience.
There's lots of consternation though,
and trepidation of course in the
business community about what can
actually be achieved. They want to see
stability on the ground. They want to
make sure that potentially there are
discussions about restructuring their
debt. A company like Kico Phillips, will
they be paid back for the losses they
took in this country? Secretary Wright
says all of these conversations are on
the table. And when he describes these
meetings and he spent a lot of time
yesterday at the palace with the
president, interimm president Delsei
Rodriguez. He says that he wants to lift
the Venezuelan people. He wants to let
them free and their economy free. And he
says the way to transform this country
is through commerce, not through troops
on the ground. And that was a message he
brought himself from President Trump who
he dined with before he landed here in
Venezuela. Jonathan
>> Emory, I hear a siren behind you and I
think uh some of the tangibles of the
experience of being down there are all
the more interesting at a time where
business is understanding exactly what
you said, how much security there is on
the ground. What's the environment like?
What's the reception to some of the US
officials who are there from uh the rank
and file in Venezuela?
Well, a lot of this is, as I've
overheard one official talking, nothing
will be in a straight line when it comes
to the end destination for potentially
this bilateral relationship and what the
business community can expect.
Obviously, there are immense safety
concerns, but I was talking to
individuals last night who said actually
they feel that the country has been more
stable in the past few years than many
would have potentially remembered
decades ago when they decided to leave
the country. Now, if you are a company
like Chevron and today we will be going
to visit Chevron Pedesva joint venture
oil fields with Secretary Wright
potentially even interimm president
Jesselse Rodriguez will be joining us.
If you're already on the ground you're
going to be the ones that are able to
quickly ramp up say production or put
more investment into this country. when
it comes to the businesses that are on
the sidelines right now and I'm talking
to individuals from the embassy that are
trying to restart the embassy here who
by the way the embassy actually has mold
in it because it was left uh after 2019
they're getting a tremendous amount of
outreach they say from everyone in the
United States from seauite America from
Washington DC that want to be the first
ones on the ground being the first ones
on the ground coming here and seeing
what the situation is though is very
different from making a massive capital
investment and that is really the
question lies for the future of this
country and how much business and
capital financial interest it can draw.
>> Amarie, fantastic work and looking
forward to your conversation with the
energy secretary Chris Wright a little
bit later on today. That's coming up on
Bloomberg TV and on Bloomberg radio and
Marie on the ground in Caracus,
Venezuela after some big changes in that
country over the past month or so.
>> The idea that suddenly the leader Maduro
could just be plucked out, brought to
the United States and make it work
because suddenly this is going to be a
very different country. Interesting.
Deli Rodriguez and her role in all of
this considering that she worked for uh
Nicholas Maduro and actually was part of
that administration. How much she
actually is welcoming the US to come in
with some of the oil majors?
>> I'm not sure she's got a choice at the
moment.
>> But how much is she actually full
throttle ahead and how much she can get
popular support on online? That's going
to be really interesting.
>> We talked to Goldman about bad stocks in
Venezuela.
>> I think that that's obvious not what
obvious transition.
>> Let's talk about European equities
climbing to fresh record highs. The
stock 600 outperforming the S&P 500 so
far this year. Sharon Bell of Goldman
Sachs writing, "The search for
insulation from AI disruption risk has
accelerated the ongoing cyclical rally
in the US. We continue to see rising
allocations to Europe as a diversifier
with reasonable valuation." Sharon joins
us now for more. Sharon, welcome to the
program. Let's just build on what you've
just written there. The idea that
Europeans are starting to look at home
again. Are Americans looking abroad? Are
they participating in this?
I think it's both. Um, in fact, I would
say it's more American investors, US
dollar-based investors that are worried
that the US market looks expensive.
They're very concentrated in their
positions in the US dollar. Um, you've
got four or five companies which are all
big bets and one thing AI. So, uh, that
may pay off, but you don't know and it
just leaves you with some risk. So,
people wanting to diversify, including
US investors, but domestic investors
too, both have been buying Europe this
year. Sharon, apart from just being
European, what is the diversification in
Europe? What does it offer?
>> Yeah, offers very different sector
exposure, I would say. I mean, there is
a tech sector obviously in Europe, but
it's much smaller than the sector in the
US. You don't have the large
hyperscalers, not um uh spending as much
um in the way that it um the
hyperscalers are in the US. are very
different from a tech sector perspective
but also and I think this is more
important Europe offers things like much
more exposure to um as a share of the
index to commodity related areas
materials industrials financials which
have all in the last year performed very
well. Yeah, I'm thinking about Glenor
for example or uh Shell or some of the
big banks that have also done pretty
well in the region. I just am curious
though if someone is looking
internationally and they're not from
Europe, why not go to Asia? What is the
draw to to Europe that has better
exposures that's going to somehow
outperform at a time when there's a real
kind of question around how much they
can break out from some of the
crosswinds coming from both the US and
China.
>> Absolutely. And I agree with that. I our
philosophy has been you want to broaden
your exposure and diversify not just
into Europe but into Asia into emerging
markets. We've just upped our emerging
market targets for example. So and
actually Asia and emerging markets have
seen better earnings performance this
year and have performed extremely well
better than Europe and the US stock
market. So I think there's plenty of
opportunity globally to diversify
including Europe as part of that as
well. Um, but I do agree there are
headwinds for Europe, meaning economic
growth is slower in Europe than
elsewhere, although it's still positive
and it's being boosted obviously by the
fiscal spend in Germany. But yes, there
are headwinds such as China competition,
although I do think European policy
makers are starting to acknowledge this
now. You know, we're talking about the
motivation and we talk about the sell
America trade which has become cliche.
It feels like a little bit different
than that and that's the reason why we
keep going back to this George Saravevel
of Deutsche Bank note where he's talking
about the loss of safe haven status for
uh the dollar not necessarily in the
sense that it's going to go to zero but
you're not getting the same
diversification feature in terms of the
dollar outperforming when risk assets
sell off. How much do you see that as a
driver? Not just people wanting to look
home or some of the emotions of the
moment.
Yeah, I I think it's definitely that
there's often when you see a change in
trend, there isn't one single driver of
it. There's several drivers. I think we
talked about the diversification sector
exposure. I mentioned uh valuation
differences, but I also think concern
about having uh all your exposure in
dollars um and wanting to diversify that
is also another element of this and the
euro, sterling, Swiss Frank provides um
different currency exposure as well. I I
think there's many elements to this
desire for global investors to diversify
and broaden out their exposures.
>> There's a lot of anticipation about how
much money is going to be spent on AI
and the beneficiaries of that, Sharon.
As you know, it's a big thing for the
year ahead as well with $650 billion of
capex coming from just four companies,
which is just absolutely absurd. People
are thinking about the miners, Sharon,
in a much bigger way. And when I think
about miners, I think about the Footsie
and some of the listings for UK
equities. Are you seeing that generate
some bigger returns for large cap UK?
>> Absolutely. Footsie 100 has done
extremely well um this year. Uh we I you
know index targets have generally been
raised. I think in honesty it's an index
which would been ignored for 10 or 15
years by global investors and domestic
UK investors. Doesn't really have very
much tech exposure. It's got a very
different type of exposure, but that's
actually doing quite well at the moment.
It's also an index which looks
relatively inexpensive. So the UK market
still trades at 13 and a half times PE
which it's not quite half what the S&P
trades on but not far off.
>> Sharon Bell of GMA sack Sharon
appreciate the insight and the different
character coming from European equities
on offer for people looking to
diversify. Guy Johnson would often call
UK equities Jurassic Park. Now that used
to be a bad thing and now it's a good
thing because that's what people want to
buy into.
>> Honestly, Jurassic Park has shown this
the the the stability of time, right? It
has proven the test of time in that we
still go and talk about Jurassic Park
and guess what? Those dinosaur bones and
bodies created oil that we're now using
for financing all of our AI. So look,
we're looking at all of this and it's
sort of what's old is new again. And we
have to invest invest in real things
because if it's on a computer, there is
a high likelihood it will be disrupted
and that scares people.
>> Futures right now positive by 0.3%.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. McDonald's US growth hitting a
2-year high. The fast food chain
reporting a fourth quarter earnings in
revenue that beat estimates. A focus on
affordability, helping to boost traffic
as diners spent [music] more per visit.
McDonald's is planning to introduce new
beverages this year, including
refreshers, energy beverages, and
crafted sodas.
The US and Japan are closing in on the
first three projects funded by Tokyo's
$550 billion investment package as part
of a bilateral trade deal. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg all three
projects are related to a data center
infrastructure project led by Soft Bank.
[music] Discussions between US commerce
secretary Howard Lutnik and Japan's
trade minister aimed to finalize details
this week.
Morgan Stanley CEO Ted Pic getting a big
raise. The company boosting his pay by
32% to $45 million for 2025 after a
record year for the company. Morgan
Stanley shares surged more than 40% last
[music] year, far surpassing the
strength of the S&P 500. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program,
President Trump defending his agenda.
>> Tariffs are bringing us hundreds of
billions of dollars.
>> Without tariffs, we would be this
country would be in such trouble as they
were for many years. Every prediction
the critics made about our tariff policy
has failed to materialize.
>> Some push back on Capitol Hill. We'll
catch up with the Republican Congressman
French Hill next from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are up by 0.3% on [music] the S&P
on the NASDAQ up by23 on the Russell.
Our outperformance on the small caps up
by 0.58. If we switch the board and get
to the bond market [music] repricing at
the front end of the curve, two-year
yields higher following stronger than
expected payrolls [music] numbers
yesterday. The two-year this morning at
35057.
Some commentary from [music] Wall
Street, from Bank of America, that jobs
report vindicates our view that the Fed
won't cut under power. BMP Parabar and
Andrew Husby going even further. We
think the [music] Fed will be cautious
on delivering further rate cuts, quote,
which aligns with our base case of no
cuts through 2027.
That's the call from BMP,
>> which is essentially validating what we
heard from Torson Slock because no cuts
for the entirety of 2026 [music]
would mean that you're continuingly uh
kicking the can down the road of
potential rate cuts. [music] I just
wonder about the Morgan Stanley's and
the City Groups of the world that are
reiterating their calls for three-way
rate cuts this year on less inflation.
How high is that bar for inflation to
come down now in order for the Fed to
make a move?
>> Kevin W [music] should be under
pressure, won't he? Eight 18 months into
the job, no rate cuts.
>> I think he's already under pressure. He
hasn't even gotten the job. So, you've
got a good point there.
>> Let's head down to Washington under
Savannah this morning. President Trump
defending his [music] agenda.
>> We getting rich because of tariffs. By
the way, I hope everyone understands
that tariffs are bringing us hundreds of
billions of dollars. Without tariffs, we
would be this country would be in such
trouble as they were for many years.
>> Every prediction the critics made about
our tariff policy has failed to
materialize.
>> 78% reduction in our trade deficit. And
next year, we're going to be positive if
uh we keep it all going.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president threatening House Republicans
taking a stand against his tariff
agenda. The president posting on Truth
Social, there will be consequences after
six GOP lawmakers crossed party lines to
rebuke the president's levies on Canada.
The Republican Congressman French Hill
voting against the measure to override
President Trump's tariffs. And he joins
us now for more. Congressman Hill,
welcome to the program, sir. Your
reaction to what happened on the Hill
yesterday and why you voted the way you
did.
>> Well, good morning, Jonathan. Look, I
think we should handle the tariff
discussion in a more comprehensive way
and not take votes every week on the
floor that turns the House floor over to
the Democratic party. That's why I
believe that standing with Speaker Mike
Johnson on this maintains Republican
control of the floor. So, this is a very
important strategic issue in a
parliamentary uh body like Congress with
a very narrow majority. What we should
be doing about trade is urging the
president to renew USMCA with Canada and
Mexico, which is under review for its
5-year review this summer. It's a very
important trade arrangement for the
three countries. Progress is being made
in working with the Canadians and the
Mexicans. So, that's number one. It's
not to be connected in my judgment to
the vote last night which is did the
president have the right to put tariffs
on Canada undera because of the fentanyl
matter. You get my point. Let's stick
with the big picture here which is
growing America's exports growing
America's influence using tariffs as a
tool to change trade behavior of other
nations. Number one on that list of
course is China.
>> Congressman, you mentioned USMCA. Our
team down in Washington. And I'm sure
you're familiar with the work of Josh
Windgrove wrote just yesterday that the
president is privately musing about
exiting the North American Trade Pact
that according to people familiar with
the matter. When you read a story like
that, do you just consider that part of
the negotiation for the upcoming
negotiations or does that concern you?
>> Yeah. No, I do because of the way
President Trump is responsible for
dramatically improving the North
American Free Trade Agreement from the
1992 1993 time frame in creating USMCA
in his first term and it worked quite uh
well, but there's more to be done on
Canadians on dairy or Canadians on
softwood lumber or how the automotive
business works back and forth between
the two countries or now the role of it.
We have we live in an everchanging
economy with everchanging priorities.
But let's face the reality that 30% of
GDP in my home state of Arkansas is
connected to crossber trade with Mexico
and Canada. So the agreement is
important and it's also important for
you to note in that comment that
President Trump has uh you know uh does
not impose additional tariffs on USMCA
compliant goods. So we are living by the
agreement. Congressman, there's a
trade-off here and I think a lot of
people would be sympathetic with the
idea of trying to get certain trade
partners to change behaviors and
thinking particularly of China. On the
other hand, there's a real affordability
crisis and this is a real issue for a
whole host of representatives who are
coming up for election later this later
this year. I just wonder how much
influence you think that Republicans on
the Hill have over President Trump's
negotiations around tariffs to
potentially either abstain from putting
additional ones on or rolling some of
the existing ones back.
>> Well, what you've seen him do is
fine-tune the efforts with individual
countries or regions like the EU, UK,
Japan, for example. I want to see the
consolidate the wins from those
agreements that he's done over this
first year in the first place. Secondly,
you've seen him roll back some tariffs
on commodities that we don't make here
in the United States but we need to use
whether it's a fruit or vegetable or a
coffee for example. And I think that
makes sense. You don't want to burden
the consumer as you're attempting to
change trade policies in other other
countries or compel them to follow
Americans lead on something like
transnational uh drug uh cartel uh
countering those drug cartels. But on
the affordability side, Lisa, I think
the most important thing we can do is
stay focused on the supply side. the one
big beautiful bill last year signed into
law by President Trump will see real
wage increases uh this year for American
families in Arkansas. We expect some
$10,000 in benefit to a family of four
from the increased child tax credit, the
lower taxes on tips, the use of the
standard deduction, lower taxes on
seniors uh social security. So on that
supply side, combined with what we're
doing on regulations and the proposal I
made for housing uh in the 21st century
housing act, we got 390 votes on the
House floor for that this week.
>> I personally would like to boost
consumption by taking a flight to a
number of places in the next week. And
I'm just wondering if TSA is going to be
in operation, is the government going to
shut down tomorrow night, Congressman?
>> Oh, Lisa, I hope not. I just uh
[laughter]
we I just look it was so hard on my TSA
agents in Little Rock and up in the
tower at Little Rock National Airport,
the air traffic controllers. That was a
bad 42 days. Uh that's not how to run
the government. President Trump has has
used Tom Holman as a leader to
consolidate both ICE and CBP operations
in Minneapolis. bring transparency to
the operation, streamline it, make sure
the training is in place, make sure the
operation is consistent with federal
law. They're using body cams. Let's take
that uh as the right direction and keep
our government funded in Homeland
Security. So important to so many
people.
>> Congressman, it just feels messy down in
Washington, but you pointed out the
Housing for the 21st Century Act. We can
get things done. We can find support on
both sides. Congressman, what was
actually achieved down in Washington,
and how important is that to you?
Well, it's very important, you know, uh,
Jonathan, on the on the priorities I've
had to have conservative centerright
policy on redirecting regulation and
policy for people's investment
opportunities, more crowdfunding, more
public offerings, uh, community banking,
making community banking great again by
lowering the regulatory burden on small
banks that make 60% of the home loans in
this country, and now 21st century
housing. We got 300 votes for those
policies as we did for our digital
assets and crypto work last year. Uh
that shows that Republicans and
Democrats when it comes to economic
policy can get on the same page and pass
legislation that President Trump should
sign into law that will make people's
lives better. Uh costs will be brought
down. Supply chain uh supply side
capital will advance and community
banking will thrive in this country. And
those are all good things.
>> Final question. Congressman, I've got
about 20 seconds. Are you happy you
don't have to chair the House Judiciary
Committee?
>> Cuz that was wild yesterday.
>> Well, I had a pretty wild hearing last
week with my ranking member and Mr.
Bessett's testimony. So, I know I know
wild, but it was uh but that's what
happens on Capitol Hill. We bring the
public and their elected representatives
together to try to find solutions and it
can get spicy sometimes.
>> Congressman, appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. Congressman French Hill, thank
you, sir. Down in Washington, DC.
serious topic yesterday in front of that
committee and things got very rowdy very
quickly.
>> Well, this seems to be a theme because
you're right, they had the Scott Bessant
hearing in the prior week and it was
just as spicy. There's a lot of
animosity and there's a lot of anger and
you could feel that motion down without
a
>> doubt DC without a doubt. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Kristen
Bidlia City, Monica Aguero of Morgan
Stanley, David Tinsley of Bank of
America, Steve Rashid of Missouo. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
If the data continues like we see, we're
not going to get the debt rate cut.
>> The Fed doesn't probably won't see the
need to do too much more. The bigger
issues are the macroeconomic conditions
of the consumer.
>> Rate cuts if and when they come will be
based on inflation. [music]
based on inflation.
>> The data will leave the Federal Reserve.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. The bigger
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 firmer by a third
of 1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.3.
Outperformance on the Russell up by 0.6.
That outperformance yesterday [music]
didn't hold. It didn't stick. The
Russell actually ended the session lower
even with stronger than expected
payrolls data. Bond yields at the front
end [music] repricing higher pushing out
Fed rate cuts. Twos above 350. Yields
just about unchanged on the session
going into this 90 minutes [music] away.
8:30 Eastern time. Another read on the
labor market. Jobless claims in focus.
It might take on a little bit more
import simply because it was
inconclusive yesterday. Yes, the
headline number came in better than
expected. Blew away expectations,
130,000. [music] At the same time, under
the hood, downward revisions. Also,
you've got some uh seasonal effects and
people poked holes. Not in that this was
a good number. This was a good number,
but in that it showed a reaceleration in
the US economy that was required to get
the likes of small caps reignited.
>> And the Hawks are starting to feel good.
>> Exactly.
>> After questioning their stance at the
back end of last week, they're feeling
good. the Cleveland Fed President Beth
Hammock this week. Based on my forecast,
we could be on hold for quite some time.
Over in Kansas, President Jeff Schmidt,
further [music] rate cuts risk allowing
high inflation to persist even longer,
>> which is a reason why you've got a
number of Wall Street firms saying,
"Forget about it for any kind of rate
cut in 2026." Others, whether it's
Morgan Stanley or whether it's Croup,
talking about a potential for three rate
cuts [music] this year. How much are
those rate cuts necessary for some of
the more cyclical areas to get
reignited? Ultimately, it depends on
what the data show and how much can we
really say that a Kevin Worsh Fed is not
going to cut rates and that is a
political discussion that a lot of
people will say has been [music]
answered for us.
>> So, I have exactly the same response to
all of this. When BMP Parabar come out
and say no rate cuts through 2027 that
is no longer just an [music] economic
assessment. You're making an assessment
about a new Fed chair selected by the
president almost exclusively to cut
interest rates. and you're making the
forecast [music]
that in their first 18 months on the
job, they won't reduce interest rates.
>> This goes to the question of how much
control they have [music] and whether
they can influence a Fed committee to
cut rates if the data shows a a good
degree of growth. What that forecast
sets up to me [music] is a massive
battle and a tirade going on on Truth
Social about what potentially uh should
be happening at the Federal Reserve. So
ultimately there is going to be conflict
one way or another. Ultimately, it comes
down to what the data shows in terms of
understanding just what momentum there
is in the US economy.
>> Two Fed hawks already digging in and you
can see that based on the recent Fed
speed. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Kristen Bibli of City [music]
Wealth as equities inch higher. Monica
Aguero of Morgan Stanley as President
Trump's Canada tariffs hit a snag in the
house and Steve Rashid of Missouo as
investors await fresh labor and
inflation data. We begin this hour with
stocks holding their all-time highs
following a choppy 24 hours. Kristen
Biddley of City Wealth writing,
"Bifocation will continue within
software and the broader market,
highlighting the need for
diversification." Kristen joins us now
for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's talk about that bifocation. At the
start of the year, it was software
versus hardware and that been going on
for a number of months.
>> A number of months.
>> Have things got a little bit more
complicated.
>> I think in a good way, actually. I think
things have gotten more complicated
where it's no longer we're just going to
take at face value the AI trade and
everything's going to grind higher. I
think this bifurcation of saying okay
let's look at earnings let's look at the
capex spend and we're going to delineate
between those who are actually seeing an
ROI on that that expenditure and those
who are just spending money if you don't
see the ROI investors are getting less
patient and I think that's healthy
>> as we see this disruption cascade from
industry to industry there are others
who are just hiding elsewhere Jun
Emanuel Evore was on the program in the
previous hour people are just hiding in
staples they don't really know what to
do
>> amazing
>> so everyone's talking about this
cyclical upswing and you've got staples
up double digits here today. Does that
make sense?
>> And I think it doesn't entirely make
sense because you would normally think
if people are putting money into
staples, it's almost recessionary fears
are front and center. But I would say
where can you hide in certain industries
that are not that cannot be penetrated
by AI? I think it's as simple as that.
You have the valuation play as well as
something where it's like is this
industry going to be disrupted? where
people are starting to ask the question
what is going to be disrupted and then
also when are they going to start to see
the productivity gains which is also why
we're seeing some of those selloffs when
it comes to even what came out about
wealth management real estate services
what does it mean for those models going
forward
>> I won't pressure you on wealth
management for obvious reasons
>> I would love to talk about it actually
>> the disruption divide seems to be the
story it doesn't feel like anymore it's
a cyclical story it just feels like it's
based on the disruption divide
>> but I think this is again you have the
first part of this equation is
infrastructure and then looking at that
significant amount of of spending. Is
that a bubble? When are we going to see
the ROI? It's not a bubble. It's really
kind of the infancy stages of this and
that's going to then benefit a number of
other industries. Then you have the
application of that infrastructure spend
which will flow through to areas like
financials, like insurance companies,
like logistics and trucking. And so then
it's who are the beneficiaries and are
they actually ex are they making the the
right investment decisions to then be
true beneficiaries of this.
>> Let's talk about wealth management. We
went there in [laughter] terms of the
disruption and how much you could
actually be taken out of a job for AI
because we're all wondering the same
thing about ourselves and how much can
this sort of uh iterate in order to make
us completely obsolete and irrelevant.
Was it interesting to you when it hit
the industry that you're in to
understand what people were not
understanding or did you get a sense of
just abject fear and go into a bunker?
>> No, we've been preparing for this for
quite some time. So when you think of
how AI impacts wealth management, it
makes us better at our jobs. So there's
that common phrase where it's, you know,
the the person AI is not going to take
your job, but the person using AI is
going to take your job. So this makes
all of us more productive. But what we
also need to take a look at is it's not
just about the AI tools, who has the
data. So the underlying data becomes
critical. So for example, within my
business, we've been covering law firms
for 56 years. We have extensive data on
the the state of the law industry, also
on lawyers themselves in terms of their
financial plans, their career
progression. So, if you're going to take
something like a financial planning
software, yes, it's great to have the
underlying balance sheet kind of
calculations, but if you can combine
that with really powerful data and
insights on industries that are unique
to you at City, we have credit card
data, we have data on the consumer, we
have data on how people are investing,
it then multiplies that. So, data is the
edge. You work with law firms. That's
another area that people are now talking
about potentially being disrupted. Why
get an associate that's never going to
sleep and have a miserable life when you
could just use chat GPT that's never
going to complain? I'm just wondering at
what point
>> those are real structural changes.
>> So those are real. So then at what point
does that really reduce headcount and
reduce the need for the human in the
equation?
>> So when we talked about the the
employment backdrop, one of the things
that we've talked about on this program
together before is I am concerned about
the youth unemployment rate. That is an
area we talk about it within like the
legal profession that you used to have
this pyramid structure and it's moving
to more of a cylinder because you don't
need as many first year associates and
you're seeing that actually come to
fruition not in the future but in today
in terms of hiring plans. So there will
be structural changes in terms of what
your workforce and labor force looks
like. And I think that's going to impact
not true adviserss but it will impact
some of the entry- level positions. If
you're wondering where the rant came
from because it felt so personal. Lisa
was almost a lawyer.
>> And then a true story. All right.
>> Bremo chose to be a journalist instead
of a lawyer.
>> Absolutely. Do you want to know the
truth? A law professor who is my adviser
said to me, "You would love law school.
You would hate being a lawyer. Go be a
journalist." And I said, "Okay, I'll do
that."
>> Will AI change that for you?
>> Go back to being a lawyer. I can I can I
can uh I can adjudicate things while on
air.
>> Kristen, so much of this is happening,
and that's true. So much of this is
happening in the US. So much of it's
driven out of the US and yet we had a
guest 30 minutes ago talking about the
opportunities elsewhere in Europe. Is it
the end of US tech dominance? Is it the
end of supremacy in the equity market?
>> I don't think so. I think like look the
flows year to date absolutely are
showing that that people are
diversifying away from the US both in
terms of the dollar as well as the
equity market. So if we look at what's
rallied, you can look at Japanese
equities, you can look at Korean
equities, you can look at emerging
markets. um in terms of the the price
action that we've seen year to date, but
we need these megga cap stocks to
perform and they are the ones that are
really driving the expenditures. They're
driving the innovation and when you look
at their earnings growth, it's still
really impressive. So, this is like they
are delivering from an earnings
standpoint. So, to be on the forefront
of innovation and the investment and
what's really going to drive long-term
secular growth, the US has to be there
and these mega cap companies need to as
well. What we hear repeatedly and I'm
sure you hear the same thing is that the
international investor base is nervous
about taking additional dollar exposure.
Now I know additional dollar exposure
because they've taken so much
>> exactly
>> over the last decade. Do you hear the
same thing?
>> I think the the major thing that we're
hearing and I actually just came back
from Europe. I was in London and Madrid
last week. The major thing is like when
you look at last year last year was
painful right in terms of like yes you
had US equities rally but when you then
translate that back into your home
currency if you're a euro based investor
that totally changes the equation. But
for like your average like US investor
who is very dollar-based and very dollar
centric, it's not really an issue.
>> I'm curious given the fact that you do
travel, given the fact that you talked
to so many investors, how has sentiment
shifted from the end of last year to
now, which feels like about 15 years.
>> So we did a poll. We we had a couple of
events um in Madrid and in London and we
did a poll and it basically ended up
exactly the same in both locations. So
it was, you know, instead of us talking
about our outlook, which is
constructive, and we do believe that
there's there are tailwinds with
volatility, it was about 60% of
participants, it was consistent across
both locations. 60% of of our investors
were were constructive and and bullish
and and saw some tailwinds in terms of
the earnings backdrop and particularly
even within the US market. 20% concerned
and a lot of it was around are there
structural changes that we need to be
anticipating and the remaining 20% just
admitted they're entirely confused.
>> Count me in that in that bucket.
>> I think I'm in that group too. Chris,
it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you. Kristen Bidley
there of City Wealth. Can you imagine if
we lost Brammo to the legal
professional? That would just be awful.
>> There is a huge cohort. We probably
would be clapping. So, you know, too
bad. Sorry.
>> I'd hate it. I'd hate it. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. CarMax topping hotel industry
veteran Keith Bar as its next CEO. Bar
will take the helm in March and will be
challenged with improving CarMax's
online sales experience and lowering
costs. [music] He previously served as
CEO for IHG for six years.
Anthropic nearing the completion of a
deal to raise more than $20 billion.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
funding round is co-led by investors
including Peter Teal's Founders Fund, De
Shaw, and Dragon Investment Group.
Anthropic is set to be valued at about
$350 billion dollars and that
announcement could come as soon as this
week.
WhatsApp says the Russian government has
moved to block its messaging app. Russia
removed technical internet records that
help connect platforms like WhatsApp,
[music]
making the services unreachable from
inside the country. The criminal
pressing citizens to adopt a state-run
app called Max. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John Vonnie, thank you.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, trade
policy push back.
It was just announced our trade deficit
has gone down. Now if you go down one
point, two points, you're like a genius.
Gone down 78%. That's because of
tariffs.
>> Six Republicans crossing party lines.
Some push back on Capitol Hill. That
conversation up next with Monica Aguero
of Morgan Stanley live from New York
City this morning. Good [music] morning.
Pretty
decent strong payrolls data just
yesterday. Later this morning, about an
hour from [music] now, you'll get
jobless claims. Another read on the
labor market in America. The estimate in
our survey 223. [music] The previous
number, the wrong kind of upside to
price. We got 231. We're looking for
that number to come back down and get
further signs that this labor market is
stabilizing. In this equity [music]
market, equity futures look like this.
On the S&P 500, firmer by a third of 1%
on the NASDAQ up by 0.26 on the Russell
up by6%. Curious that the gains in the
Russell and the small caps did not stick
yesterday. Didn't hold even with that
stronger than expected economic data.
But something that did stick, this move
here in the bond market, repricing
[music] at the front end of the curve,
just pushing gout, not totally pricing
gout, but pushing gout the prospect of
further interest rate cuts from the
Federal [music] Reserve.
>> The Hawks got ammunition. Why would they
cut rates if you see the labor market
potentially stabilizing and not exactly
falling off [music] a cliff ultimately
tomorrow is going to be really
important. The idea that we're going to
get the inflation read CPI [music] will
give us a sense of just how much leeway
they have to potentially cut rates on
disinflationary trends even if you
aren't seeing any kind of deterioration
in labor. You mentioned Morgan Stanley a
little bit earlier. Mike [music] Gapen
is the one looking for precisely that.
Not weakness in the labor market, but
softer inflation, leaving the door open
for them to [music] reduce interest
rates. And they're the kind of cuts that
Kevin Walsh would love to deliver
because they're not complicated. You
come out [music] and say inflation's
lower, I'm cutting interest rates as
opposed to everything's fantastic,
growth is absolutely flying, and you're
cutting interest rates because why?
>> Yeah. Exactly. [music] Which leads to
the whole political question. There also
is a really bad message that he could
send. If the labor market does crack,
you don't want to say, "I'm cutting
interest rates." Because guess what? We
need them and we need them badly. That
is not the right message the market
wants to hear either.
>> Some pressure on that man before [music]
he even gets confirmed at the top of the
Federal Reserve. And Sylvanas this
morning, trade policy push back.
>> It was just announced how a trade
deficit has gone down. Now, if you go
down one point, two points, you're like
a genius. Gone down 78%. That's because
of tariffs. that we're we're doing
numbers that nobody thought were
possible. 78% reduction in our trade
deficit and next year we're going to be
positive if uh we keep it all going.
>> Congress isn't celebrating. Here's the
latest this morning. Six House
Republicans defying the president voting
to block some of his tariffs on Canada
as unease over the administration's
economic policies continues to grow. The
president vowing consequences for any
members of his party opposing the
levies. Tyler Kendall has more for us.
Hey, Tyler.
Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
this marks the strongest political push
back that we've seen against one of
President Trump's signature economic
policies as we head into the midterm
elections. And House Speaker Mike
Johnson tried to prevent his members
from taking this politically fraught
vote. He had tried to delay it until at
least after the Supreme Court rules on
President Trump's broad-based AIPA
tariffs, but at this point, they're now
all on the record. And if you're a
reporter here in Washington, you get
inudated with campaign emails. And I
have to say, after this vote took place,
my inbox was flooded with Democrats
targeting Republicans in farm states who
voted in favor of the president's tariff
policies. Now, Democrats want to make
this a top focus as Republicans play
defense according to the polling on the
economy. But the White House is still
defending its policies, and we should
say that the vast majority of
Republicans did vote with the president
on this one. But still, if you were one
of the six that didn't, President Trump
really could make good on some threats
to hurt them come the primary season
because he has amassed a record 483
million war chest. And people familiar
with the matter told us last month that
he plans to be personally involved in
how that cash gets deployed. Plus, keep
in mind this is just the first in what's
expected to be a series of votes
targeting President Trump's tariff
policies. This vote was uh about Canada,
but we're expecting another one later
this month. looking at the tariffs
levied against Mexico. Uh John, with all
of this said, and just to be sure, this
measure now goes to the Senate where it
actually really likely could pass, but
then it will come to President Trump's
desk where he would veto it. It would
take a twothirds majority in both
chambers to override that veto. So, none
of this legislation is probably going to
turn into a law, but at this point, it
really is showing that perhaps more
symbolic push on the behalf of lawmakers
as we head into November. Tala Kendall
with the latest down in Washington.
Tala, thank you. Joining us here in New
York is Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley
Wealth Management. Monica, good to see
you.
>> Good to see you.
>> So, the calendar, let's get to the
calendar. So, at some point, USMCA
renegotiation. There's a meeting with
Xiinping in the spring. There's already
push back on Capitol Hill. How is that
going to shape outcomes for the year
ahead?
>> So, when we're thinking about USMCA,
it's really critical to remember that
this is a review. And typically, you
don't get a renegotiation, but what
we're seeing is that renegotiation's on
the table. So you had China and Canada
have a conversation. While we uh have
reason to believe that Canada did
communicate that with the US in advance,
it still is setting the stage right for
hard ball when we're thinking about
actual renegotiation this summer. So
we're waiting to see what that looks
like and then we have this pressure from
Congress adding to the to the table. So
everyone wants a voice in this
negotiation, not just the president.
>> This isn't NAFTA. That's gone. The
president called it USMCA. it's his.
What doesn't he like about his own deal?
>> One of the biggest areas where you get
the pressure is with the UAW, right? The
United Auto Workers. They're really
looking at essentially lessening the pay
differential between US, Mexico, US,
Canada. You're also seeing a lot of uh
fair fair trade and fair worker uh
concerns. So, you're getting this from
the trade unions. They're looking to
have a lot of pressure um alleviated off
the table. The president also wants
Canada and Mexico to affirmatively pull
away from China. You've seen some, you
know, more uh firm action on the Mexican
side of the border, but not necessarily
with Canada. Canada is now saying, "Hey,
we're an open buyer. We don't
necessarily have the same, you know,
geopolitical viewpoint. We aren't the
the founders of the Monroe Doctrine. Um,
so we're okay with, you know, starting
negotiations elsewhere." How much does
this latest House vote constrain the
president? And I say this because he's
going to renegotiate this without
necessarily a vote of faith and
confidence from particularly a number of
uh Republican Congress members that are
on the border that actually have
business with Canada and are realizing
this isn't going to be good for their
constituents. What this really shows is
cracks right in the in the party. We've
seen really lockep support of the
president where does it actually move
the needle potentially potent I would
say right now from a legislative
standpoint no you're not going to be
able to get this through the senate
what's interesting about this though is
that if you have GOP members defecting
they are pretty positive I guarantee it
pretty positive that they could
withstand a primary so this is
essentially not necessarily a gamecher
for them with their electorate because
their base is concerned about this issue
right so any sort of challenger that
would come in. I think that that would
be a very difficult fight.
>> They're concerned about affordability
and that has been something that keeps
coming up. It seems to be the word of
the year, at least on the political
front. I just wonder what more Congress
can do. Can they provide additional
stimulus uh with the support that they
have with the concerns about the deficit
and frankly with the jobs number that we
just got that beat expectations?
>> So, one of the things that we're really
looking at from a stimulus standpoint
is, you know, pre premidterms. So again,
once we get through that USMCA
renegotiation, you get through August,
then it's going to be fullblown
campaigning, and that's when you're
likely to see more of the affordability
measures come in, maybe you get more on
housing. You're likely to get some
movement in health care, whether that's
pharmarmacaps or a Trump healthcare
plan. We don't know yet, but they're
going to essentially look around the
edges and see where they can make good
on that affordability promise. The other
thing that's really critical that people
aren't paying really close attention to
is the OBBA tax cuts and how those tax
refunds this year are going to be at
record highs about 40% higher than we
had in the last year. This is notable
because what it does is that it
alleviates the debt side of the equation
and the consumer staples side of the
equation. People think, oh, you get more
cash on hand with a tax refund that that
would go to consumer discretionary.
That's not historically what the
behavior is when we're thinking about
behavioral finance. People take that
money, they pay down their credit card
debt, they pay off the debt that they
incurred over the holidays, and then
they essentially get their house in
order. So, we think this is a real boon
for consumer staples throughout the year
and not necessarily discretionary.
>> So, let's stay on this for people who
don't follow your research. You do have
the winners and losers of the
legislation coming out of Washington.
Winners staples, losers, discretionary.
That doesn't sound like stimulus. And
when I was reading through your note, I
was sitting there thinking that because
so many people are coming on this
program talking about these refunds and
talking about the stimulus that it will
provide for the US economy. You don't
share that view, do you?
>> Um, well, I wouldn't say I don't share
it. It's going to essentially benefit,
right, the lower end retailers. So, you
have to think about it really, not just
sectorally, but where within those
industries, the thing that where you're
going to get stimulus is going to be on
defense spending. It's going to be on
these major bills that they're likely to
get through and in that second half of
the year. Affordability measures are
helpful. They're a nice talking point,
but they don't really come home to roost
until 2027 2028. So, when we're thinking
about stimulus, you got to look at where
is the money actually being allocated
and that's likely to be with defense and
other other areas.
>> Speaks to where the performance has come
from. Bremo so far year to date. lots of
different reasons, not just the AI story
and hiding in a bunker, but the staple
stories really perform well.
>> When you think of stimulus, you think of
discretionary spending,
>> things that help the cyclical trade.
>> You think of things like traveling more.
You don't think of people buying more
food to stock up their pantries. You
don't think of people reloading on
shampoo and conditioner. So, this really
speaks to how different the financial
backdrops are for some people than
others. and that the people who are most
likely to spend this extra income are
the people who are going to be spending
it on Campbell soup and maybe some
shampoo.
>> As you say, this really speaks to that
K-shaped economy. So on the upper end,
the reason why they're not stimulating
up at the upper end is because that
spending is already happening, that
travel is happening, the discretionary
spending is happening in that space. So
what they're looking to do is speak to
that lower leg, right? Those that really
need that feel that affordability pinch.
And that's why it's important when we're
thinking about staples. It is going to
stimulate on that end in a way that we
haven't seen.
>> Monica, this was great. It's good to see
you. Thank you, Monica there of Morgan
Stanley. Staples year to date, not just
an AI trade. What you just heard there
from Morgan Stanley, also a tax refund
trade yet to date up by double digits.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
David Tinsley of the Bank of America
Institute as the K-shaped economy opens
up. And they note in their data a
widening divide not just between low
income and high income, but middle
income and high income. problems are
migrating up from low income to [music]
middle income.
>> Housing costs and health care costs are
eating into the average family's income
in a way that isn't being priced into
how we categorize some of these levels.
>> We'll speak to David in about 5 minutes
time. Plus, Yhira has your morning
movers. Strong demand for memory storage
lifting shares of Sandis and Micron. Big
moves in the pre-market on those names.
Once again, big moves so far year today.
Wild wild rallies worldwide. Equity
features on the S&P up by a third of 1%
on the S&P 500. 1 hour from now. Jobless
claims the next stop for your economic
data following a stronger thanex
expected payroll report in [music]
America.
Two days no gains. Let's see if we can
turn it around. We're positive by a
third of [music] 1% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ up a similar amount. And your out
performance from the Russell higher by
0.6% in the bond market taught lots
about a 2-year back above 350 just a
break of that we're down a basis point
on 10 we're down another basis point too
and down two at the long end of the
curve 30s to 478 just how quickly we
faded that post payrolls bump in
equities and [music] in foreign exchange
and now to some extent in the bond
market.
>> How many notes did you read? Take it
with a grain of salt. You know I'm not
necessarily confident that this
indicates some sort of shift. How about
that birth death model? How about the
downward revisions? I mean, how many
holes were poked in it in some of the
notes that we got overnight? You can
argue, okay, nonetheless, this is a
pretty good number. This doesn't
necessarily though scream [music] of
growth that really would supersede any
kind of disinflation that potentially
could cause rate cuts.
>> But there's an obvious bias, I think,
for a lot of people conditioned by
experience of the last 12, 18, 24 months
just to mentally revise the jobs figure
[music] down because ultimately in 12
months time, it will be done anyway by
officials. So, why wouldn't you? Can
[music] you really put much weight on
this? I hope we see it continue. I would
say that the only supporting factor
right now in the data that I've seen
over the last week or so is the ISM.
Outside of that, a lot of it is going
against the grain. Jobless claims being
one. I hope it turns around in an hour
from now. Challenger job cuts were
problematic. Jolts were problematic. The
sentiment surveys haven't been great
either.
>> And in the payrolls, you did see
construction uh workers [music] actually
pick up in terms of employment some of
the other areas in the industrial
sectors. To your point, how much [music]
does this really uh up the up the volume
uh increase what we do when we pay
attention [music] to jobless claims in
order to really correlate what we saw
yesterday?
>> Claims 60 minutes away. We'll look out
for that as we count you down to the
opening bell 2 hours [music] away. Let's
get you some single names to morning
movers. Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Cisco is the latest company to
warn us that rising memory chip prices
will eat into profits this quarter. So
shares are falling 7% in the pre-market.
that overshadowing what was otherwise a
solid report by Cisco with its sales
outlook coming in better [music] than
expected due to its role in the AI
infrastructure buildout. Uh and that
pricing warning is lighting a fire under
the memory chip stocks looking to cash
in. You're seeing SanDisk up 6.6% Micron
up 3.5% as more companies talk about
memory shortages and higher prices
during this earning season. Analysts at
Goldman calling it the [music] great
memory crunch as AI data centers can't
get enough and supply just isn't [music]
keeping up. And speaking of data
centers, we end on Equinex. This is the
world's largest maker, sorry, the
largest operator of data center. Shares
are up nearly 10% in the pre-market
after the company [music] reported
record fourth quarter sales and a better
thanex expected 2026 outlook all due to
AI related bookings. John.
>> Yeah, I'm not shocked at all. Yahara,
thank you. If you operate data centers
right now, we can imagine who your
customers are, can't we?
>> There are a couple of names and they are
big and they are competing with one
another to try to get capacity to make
sure [music] that their competitor isn't
going to get it. So, a definite race
going on in that space.
>> Trend in serious serious money. On our
radar this morning, the Congressional
Budget Office issuing a fresh warning
for the US fiscal outlook. The CPO
raising its estimate of deficits for the
coming decade by 1.4 trillion. President
Trump's tax law and immigration policies
outweighing tariff revenue. Elsewhere,
Apple's latest Siri upgrade facing the
possibility of further delays. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the testing
of a new update revealed sluggish
response times and accuracy issues.
Features meant to be released in March
may not be available until May. And
finally, McDonald's fourth quarter US
sales growing at the fastest pace in
more than two years. The company's
offering of more affordable menu items
and value meals is paying off. It
increased traffic, right? It increased
customers coming in the doors and buying
extra value meals that had been cut in
terms of price by 15% or more uh late
last year. This is similar to what we
heard from Pepsi. This is similar to
what we've heard from other fast food
retailers. And I just want to read you
this quote from the CEO, Chris Kaminski.
As I've said before, and I will say
again, McDonald's is not going to be
beat on value and affordability. This
raises the question about how much you
end up with some sort of war in terms of
lowering prices and it speaks to the
fact that going forward this is not
changing. This is the bottom of the K
that is not improving is not seeing
their circumstance really materially get
better which is a reason why it really
has to come down to adding value i.e.
cutting prices and giving customers
something that they feel is worth it.
>> They've had to lead on basically
franchises to get them to cut prices. is
I think we all saw that value meal for
$18 in Connecticut. Do you see those
pictures in the last year? Warren
Buffett will say price is what you pay
and value is what you get. If I'm paying
$18 for a meal at McDonald's, I'm not
getting value. And by definition, that
is not a value meal. And that's where
the big effort has been in the past 12
months just to push those prices lower
and to give them the support they need
to make it happen.
>> There are two ways to view that. On one
hand, you could view this as they went
too far with some of the price increases
over the past couple of years. Uh the
second thing is that people are becoming
that much more sensitive to what those
prices are and are pushing back in a
more serious way than they have in the
past. And that latter point is the
concern given what we are seeing in
terms of both the labor growth dynamic
as well as what we're seeing with debt
and the ability to pay certainly in
delinquencies.
>> Consumer price tolerance was right up
here. Right up here coming out of the
pandemic. Charge what you want, people
to pay it. That's what people thought.
Consumer price tolerance has absolutely
sank over the last year or so. Let's
stand that story. Credit card spending
rising to its highest level in nearly
two years last month. The Bank of
America Institute writing, "We are
concerned though that a K shape is
opening up between higher income and
middle inome households alongside the
existing gap with lower inome
households." David Tinsley of the Bank
of America Institute joins us now for
more. David, welcome to the program.
Let's talk about the headline number and
the strength we're seeing and then we
can get to the disparity and the
bifocation beneath. David, the momentum
at the top line, are you encouraged by
that?
>> Yes. I mean, like you were saying in in
the graphic there, 2.6 year over year.
That's a pretty strong number. Strongest
in nearly two years. Bear in mind, it
was a pretty bad month weatherwise. You
know, bits of the east, bits of the
south were sort of shut down at the end
of the month. So, I think in aggregate
the story is a solid one. in aggregate
and that's really the headline David
because beneath the surface it really
isn't. I was going through the stats
that you and a team put out in the last
24 hours. This gap opening up between
middle and highincome Americas. Just how
wide and how quickly is that widening
happening?
>> Well, yeah, that's exactly the point.
The aggregate is fine, but then when you
look beneath that, there's like the jaws
of a crocodile in which the K the top of
the K higher income households spending
growth 2 and a half 3% over the last few
months. Lower income households 0.3 in
January sort of quite close to zero
really over the last few months. What
we're really concerned about in the data
right now is that the middle income
group, which for a good period of time
last year was in the middle between that
lower and higher story, is sort of
drifting down towards closer towards the
lower income consumer end. And of
course, you know, put put simply in a
macro sense, the lower income consumer
doesn't drive the economy, but the
middle income consumer is a very
important part of the overall consumer
story. So, you can't really afford to
lose those guys.
>> Why do you think this is? Why has the
picture gotten worse for uh middle inome
individuals considering the fact that
the stock market is up? Is it a lack of
an exposure to the stock market? is that
their jobs that they're in are not
seeing wages increase as fast as
elsewhere.
>> Well, you know, when we look at our
spending data and then we look at across
the wages data we see coming into our
customers accounts, we get a very co uh
consistent story. So, these middle inome
households have seen a softer wage
growth picture over the last few months.
It's running about 0.4 4 percentage
points 0.5 softer than the last 6 months
of last year. So, you know, to answer
your point, I think mainly it's a Labor
story and really most of these these
households don't have a lot of equity.
Uh they're not really exposed to the
wealth effects. That's very much a kind
of top income tier story there. And
there you're seeing a much more
consistent story in terms of spending.
Based on that backdrop, do you think
that we're underestimating or
overestimating the influence of some of
the tax cuts that are expected to cut
trickle through in the first couple
months of 2026 in the United States?
>> Well, what we see in our data when we
look back over the last few years is
that
people tend to spend their people f
people who are going to get larger tax
uh refunds tend to file early. And when
you look at lower income, younger
households, they spend more of that tax
refund than the other groups. You know,
in a sense, it's very intuitive. So, I
think we will see a jump in spending and
some easing in the affordability issues
from those lower income households,
those younger households. My concern
isn't really so much as the sugar rush
of tax refunds, it's when they wear off.
So in our data we see deposits staying
high for about 6 months after these tax
refunds come in. People kind of whittle
them down slowly. But you know look at
the end of this year say if that labor
market position remains soft then that
makes me more concerned about how
essentially what are what is going to be
the driver of consumption at the back
end of this year.
>> David just on the spend typically when
you track that money where does it go?
We had a guest from Morgan Stanley on a
moment ago who said a lot of that cash
is just going to go to staples and not
discretionary. What's your read on
things? What do you see in the actual
data?
>> Yeah, it's a sort of mixed bag really.
And I think that is right. Basically,
you know, affordability issues are are
at the forefront right now. And when we
look at things like trade down, we're
seeing lower income consumer spending at
grocery stores running much stronger
than they're spending at premium stores.
And we're also seeing rental costs. To
give you an idea, around a quarter of
lower income households, their monthly
rent is worth more than 50% of their
household income. So these are quite
restrictive affordability issues. So I
think yes, I think the tax refunds will
ease affordability issues. We'll see
some leakage into discretionary I'm
sure. But to the extent that it's a
lower income and middle income story, it
will be more on groceries. Maybe
there'll be some easing in terms of
quick server restaurants. You know,
referring to your piece earlier, you
know, the value meals, etc. might come
back into vogue a bit more.
>> David, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking down the latest data.
>> Thanks a lot.
>> Thank you, sir. David Tinsy there of the
Bank of America Institute following
their consumer checkpoint report. If you
missed that yesterday, consumer spending
showed solid resilience in January.
Total card spending from internal data
rising 2.6% year-over-year, strongest
pace in nearly two years. That's kind of
where the good news ends. Beneath the
surface, the wage growth gap between
higher and middle income, the largest in
nearly 5 years. And it's that middle
income squeeze that that team is
concerned about. You know, if you think
about some of these jobs that typically
are thought of as middle uh income types
of work, office managers, sales
managers, executive assistants, some of
the roles that might get disrupted by
artificial intelligence. There are
others that won't, right? Registered
nurses I'm thinking of in other areas.
But you start looking at this, you start
wondering, okay, how much of this is
also because there isn't the same kind
of price pressure for labor that there
has been in the past. This is the reason
why people really want to understand
that dynamic because it is affecting
that Kshape and how it is becoming
pernicious.
>> That's the latest on the US consumer. If
you want to check of the markets,
equities session high up by 0.4% on the
S&P with an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief is Vonnie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. US energy secretary Chris
Wright says Washington can help
Venezuela raise its [music] oil, gas,
and electricity output this year.
Speaking in Caracus, Wright saying the
administration will issue new licenses
for businesses to buy Venezuelan
products. Wright is the most senior US
official to make a public visit to
Venezuela since the capture [music] of
Nicholas Maduro.
Federal agents are looking along
roadways in the Catalina foothills near
Tucson as part of the investigation
[music] into the disappearance of Nancy
Guthrie. The Puma County Sheriff's
Department and the FBI are saying
they're following up on 18,000 tips. The
mother of today's show co-host Savannah
Guthri has been missing since February
1st.
The Fed is signaling plans to abandon
some of the confidential warnings it
previously sent to banks to improve
operations. Sources are telling us here
at Bloomberg the remaining flags will
focus more [music] on immediate risks to
a bank's financial health, less on
processes and procedures. [music] Banks
have argued that Fed supervision has
become too complex and expensive. And
that's your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank More from Vonnie in 30
minutes. Up next on the program, the Fed
faces the data.
>> What today's jobs data showed you is
that underlying economic growth is fine,
but when I look forward, I see inflation
coming down quite dramatically this
year. So, I view I view there's being a
variety of reasons still why I why I
would want to see lower interest rates.
>> Up next, we'll get the view of Steve
Rashid of Missouo from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
So this is the bullc case we heard from
Eric Johnson of cancer a little bit
earlier this week. This is what it
sounds like. Market's going to break out
soon. [music] Upcoming corporate buyback
season. Tax refund checks over the next
six weeks. ISM turning higher. massive
AI capex numbers we've all seen [music]
just announced throw in the payrolls
report and it's going to happen except
this keeps hamnic keep bumping up
against [music] 7k and the market cap
weighted index the S&P 500 just is
struggling to break out even with the
decent data we saw in the ISM [music]
last week even with the payrolls we saw
in the last 24 hours
>> there's some structural anxieties
underneath this there's on one hand the
real economy which we don't have a real
handle on and then there's of course how
much AI is going to be adopted and just
be disruptive to a whole host of
different industries and all of these
anxieties [music] are leading to a mush
that is leaving everyone just kind of
turnurning.
>> Feels constrained, doesn't it?
>> It it does.
>> The fear and [music] I will say the fear
and the anxiety that this just cascades
through the financial system and then
ultimately ends up in the sector you're
in. So you hide where staples which was
ultimately what Julian Emanuel Ever
communicated to [music] us about an hour
ago. He's basically making the point
that a lot of people are just worried
and looking for somewhere to hide. They
don't want to be the next software, the
next [music] real estate, the next where
were we in the last 24 hours? Wealth
managers managers. Yeah. Who's next?
Which sector?
>> I [music] keep going back to Christian
Berly's uh poll. 60% relatively bullish,
20% very concerned about some of these
disruptions, and 20% utterly confused.
[music] Pretty much sums it up.
>> It was easy when the Fed was just
cutting interest rates and you piled
into small caps and it all made sense.
>> This is so much more fun [music] though.
I actually really enjoy the single name
uh stories and how much things are
changing.
>> Repricing the Federal Reserve in the
last 24 hours. Under surveillance this
morning, the Fed faces the data.
What today's jobs data showed you is
that underlying economic growth is fine,
but when I look forward, I see inflation
coming down quite dramatically this
year. So, I view I view there's being a
variety of reasons still why I why I
would want to see lower interest rates.
And while today's jobs data made me feel
really good about the economy, I think
the truth is that pushing out the supply
side of the economy still allows uh
still allows for monetary policies to to
accommodate that.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve facing a busy week of
data on both sides of the central bank's
mandate. The US economy delivering a
blowout payrolls report ahead of a fresh
read on inflation with CPI due tomorrow.
Steven Shuto of Missouo writing, "The
first half of the year is seen
benefiting from strong individual tax
refunds and the second half from last
year's 75 basis point reduction in the
funds rate." Steve joins us now for
more. Stephen, welcome to the show. It's
always good to catch up with you, sir.
How much weight should we put on that
payrolls report? Is it the real deal?
Well, I think when you when you back it
up against the claims data that we've
been seeing on a regular basis, I mean,
ignore last week's numbers. Um, when you
look at where claims are, you look at
where continuing claims are, and you
look at the decline in the exhaustion
rate, i.e. people falling off the
continuing claims role, you're seeing a
healthier labor market environment, and
you're seeing it actually picking up
speed. You see a healthy labor market
environment in the NFIB numbers. Um, you
saw some healthy data in the ISM
numbers. Um I I think you know you have
to look at all this data and say well
why is it taking place the way it is and
I think the answer is because the
economy is fundamentally healthy and I
think it is going to accelerate as we go
forward into 2026 and I don't worry
about the second half of the year as I
wrote in that little piece because
primarily we think the interest rate
story comes up to really replace the tax
cuts um as the driver of the economy as
we go into the second half of the year.
Remember in in 2025 we had a real
acceleration in growth in the second
half of the year after a disappointing
first half of the year and the Fed was
all worried about the first half growth
decline. Um and that's you know what
they used to to justify the rate cuts
but at the end of the day the economy
accelerated in the second half uh you
know as a result of the tax cut the rate
cuts in 2024 and I think that continues
to dominate again this year.
>> Well Steve I want to pick up on that
point the 12-month lag. What is the
12-month lag about? Because for someone
just following financial markets, they
might sit here and say, I might sit here
and say, highly financialized economy,
it goes through financial markets almost
immediately and you can feel the effect
straight away. What takes 12 months? It
takes 12 months for people to reassess
their situation. And we're really
talking about a six-month lag. Um, which
I think is is the important piece of the
equation because, you know, there's
usually this belief that monetary policy
takes anywhere from 6 months to 18
months to be reflected in the economy.
the long and variable lags that all the
Fed chairman like to talk about, but the
reality of the situation is those long
and variable lags really depend on the
underlying health of balance sheets. And
I know you were talking before about the
K-shaped economy and the adjustments
taking place in the economy, but when
you look at where the economy is, you go
back, you're looking at five years ago,
which was the CO environment, and we're
renormalizing to a precoid environment.
And that's what you're seeing in a lot
of the data. When you look at things
like delinquency rates relative to
balances, balances are very low. So
delinquency rates look high, but when
you scale them by income or you scale
them by GDP, suddenly delinquency rates
don't look to be a problem. This is all
the type of normalizing analysis that I
think we've been doing relative to other
people that I think is really really
driving the point that this economy is
on a solid fundamental trajectory. And I
disagree completely about the argument
that we're going to get inflation coming
down. We've been talking about inflation
coming down from 3% for several years
now and it isn't happening. How long are
we going to continue to wait for good?
That's the real problem because the
Federal Reserve has to wake up and smell
the roses and inflation is stuck at
these levels.
>> We'll get to inflation in just a second.
I'm just curious. I'm dealing with
whiplash right now after David Tinsley
was just telling us that the middle
class is falling into the same type of
affordability crisis as the lower income
individuals in this country. How do you
square that story with this idea that
there is stimulus that is working its
way through the system?
>> Well, I think you you come around with
the fact that the corporate stimulus
came last year. The consumer kit
stimulus comes this year. A lot of
people are just now filing their tax
returns. They're just now getting their
refund distributions. We're on the real
exponential rise in refund check
distribution. So, we expect to start
seeing it showing up in the data in the
next couple of weeks. Um, with regard to
the the concept of of the middle inome
households, you remember you just went
through the longest government shutdown
in history. Uh, you went through a very
very cold winter, early winter
environment. uh you went through um the
reciprocal tariff adjustments of last
year. So seeing some disruptions get
developed as a result of that is not
surprising. It's where do we go forward
that becomes the critical issue. The
indicators that that that he's been
looking at are basically indicators that
tells you where we were and not looking
at well if the economy does get the
cyclical boost we're expecting. If labor
markets do get the cyclical improvement
we're expecting, then guess what? you
wind up reversing all those trends after
being worried about them for so long.
>> Stephen, going back to
>> beginning to show that's happening.
>> Going back to the inflation point that
you're making and the push back that
you're hearing across Wall Street and
Tiffany Wilding of Pimco put this out
there that after a period of stubbornly
high rental housing uh inflation, you're
actually seeing the opposite,
surprisingly low housing related
inflation. And this is being uh borne
out in a whole host of different data.
I'm just wondering where is the
inflation going to come from?
Well, you're going to see it in the good
side. I mean, we we honestly believe
that the acceleration in growth in the
economy um is going to lead to a greater
demand pull equation. We think we're
going to see it um in a lot of those
factors um that really lead to higher
prices. A tighter labor market
environment will lead to higher wages.
Higher wages will help contribute to
stronger demand. Stronger demand will
contribute to higher prices in some of
the areas where good prices have been
declining. This is why CPI is an index.
It's not one component. And this is the
thing everyone keeps on forgetting about
CPI. Remember two years ago it was all
about oh my god you got to ignore the
rising insurance rates um that were
driving CPI higher. Uh the reality is
you can't ignore rising insurance rates.
You can't ignore all the other
components. You have to look at the
aggregate of the index. That's what
really matters is the aggregate not all
these individual components. You look at
the number of components. I can always
find something to hang my hat on to be
bullish. Like people looked at the
payroll employment number and they
started doing some really apples to
oranges comparisons in the birth death
model. The reality is it's the best data
we have. Stop arguing with the data. The
data is the data. Accept the data for
what it is. Make your analysis off the
data. Stop looking for arguments within
the data to discredit the data.
>> Steve, don't stop. This was great.
Steve, it's good to see you. I've got 20
seconds. Quick question. Next move, hike
or a cut at the Federal Reserve?
Uh, nothing. They do nothing for at
least 12 months.
>> Steve Rashuto of Missouo. Steve, thank
you, sir. 12 months on hold over at the
Federal Reserve.
>> Love the data. Hold the data. Embrace
the data.
>> The data is what it is.
>> The data just is the best thing that
we've got. So, stop arguing with it. It
sounds very parental.
>> Preach.
>> Well, seriously,
>> come on. But preaching to uh deaf ears
in terms of Wall Street right now.
[music]
>> Unchanged for 12 months at the Federal
Reserve. It's another call. Seen a few
of them. It's not alone.
>> Yeah. A lot of people think that uh this
doesn't give a justification [music] to
cut rates.
>> Coming up on the program, Joe Amato of
Newberger Burman, Devon Ryan of
Citizens, Matt Lazetti of Deutsche
[music] Bank, George Borie of Allspring.
The second hour, third hour rather of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
All of these trades right now are so
sort of knife edge. Tech is a much more
nuanced sector. Now, [music]
>> if you look at places where we've
outperformed, it's been the physical
over the digital.
>> The tactical case for a continued
[music] bounce from here is pretty
strong. I would say
>> we think we're going to go back to a
high quality large cap trade.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah stats right now. Your
scores look like this. Equity [music]
futures on the S&P positive by a third
of 1%. Call it a quarter on the NASDAQ.
On the Russell up by 0.6 [music] in the
bond market. Yields on the front end of
the curve around 350 as we start to
repric this Federal Reserve. Going into
more economic data later this morning.
That [music] data is 30 minutes away.
Jobless claims follows a blowout jobs
report. Jobless claims take on more
import right now because there were so
many questions around the non-farm
payrolls report. Yes, it was very big
number. It was a beat 130,000 jobs
[music] created. Nonetheless, people
looking at all of the things that Steve
Rashidto just told us to ignore and
saying, "Hold on a second. Can we really
get confidence [music] that there is a
reaceleration in the US labor market,
the peripheral data will matter to
confirm the story that people [music]
are telling."
>> Well, Steve's point is that the rate
cuts we saw at the back end of last year
going to hit in the second half of this
year and that's where [music] you'll see
the growth. So, for those of you that
just think you get a one-off bump from
the tax refunds, they're wrong [music]
in Steve's mind because you'll get that
bump also in the second half. That's why
he's bullish the next 12 months.
>> The hard thing for me [music] is that to
speak in averages right now is so
difficult given that the circumstances
for different cohorts of the economy,
both on a company side and on a family
side, is just [music] so desperate that
it's very difficult to understand which
way overall averages are going to break.
>> Lots of disparity beneath those
averages. [music] And we can talk about
the bifocation elsewhere in just a
moment. Futures positive by a third of
1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this
[music] hour, Joe Amato of Newberger
Burman as markets search for direction.
Devon Ryan of Citizens challenging the
AI disruption narrative and Matelli
Deutsche Bank as Wall Street watches for
the latest read on the labor market. We
begin this hour with stock steady near
record levels. Newberger Burman
President Joe Amato writing, "A mix of
past and future stimulus, rising
business confidence, and improving loan
growth set the stage for further equity
gains." Joe joins us now for more. Joe,
good morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning.
>> Where are those equity gains coming
from?
>> Well, you've seen this rotation. So, the
the things that have been driving the
market over the last couple of years uh
have have now switched over. So, the
broadening out theme that we've talked a
lot about, we were probably early in
that theme. It didn't play out
necessarily fully last year, but you're
seeing it this year. So while the market
as most people would describe it, the
S&P is up just a little bit this year,
you know, values up 8%. Small cap stocks
up 101 12, you've got European stocks
up, you've got Japan, the best
performing market, uh, major market in
the country. So this rotation into
things outside of what's worked over the
last two years, I think it's an
important trend, and I think it's driven
by accelerating growth in overall
economic activity.
>> Equal weight all-time highs on the S&P
500 speaks to the same thing. Is it just
a typical upswing or is there an AI
disruption theme to all of this as well?
Are these just better places to hide
from getting smacked around the head one
day by somewhere?
>> I think it's both. I I think yeah, we
coming into this year we did think that
the nominal growth was going to
increase, cumulative rate cuts, fiscal
stimulus. So a number of those things
have in fact played out. So you're
seeing GDP growth whether it was the
second half of last year and going in
and the momentum continuing in the first
quarter of this year. But at the same
time you have disruption. So you know AI
is is is been sort of like a
heat-seeking missile look looking at
different sectors in the equity markets.
You know first it was software then it
was private credit then it's data
service providers this morning real
estate companies. So, you know, that
disruption and I think we may have even
talked about it last time I was on the
show, which is this AI uh is going to be
the most massive creative destruction
process we've ever seen and it's going
to be happening faster than we've ever
seen it in the last number of weeks.
We've uh we've seen it manifested in the
markets, but it's hard to prove the
negative about, you know, if you're a
company that's still seeing good
financial results, yet you have some
vulnerability to AI disruption. You
know, the market's just selling first
and you know, and then moving on.
>> You should trademark that analogy. a
heat-seeking missile in terms of the AI
trade because it really just describes
what's been going on in markets over the
past couple of days. I'm curious and
we'll get to that heat-seeking missile
in a second. I am curious though, does
that mean you see the cyclical part of
the market as being maybe less sensitive
to the economic data than other people
do because it is this dual type of
trade.
>> It's a little bit of the revenge of the
old economy. So, you're seeing
manufacturing pick up. some of the pre
the areas that suffered from very modest
growth over the course of the last
couple years are now seeing seeing
better growth and they are vulnerable.
You know the the automation trend going
back 10 or 20 years ago put pressure on
blueco collar jobs and and and a lot of
pressure on those businesses and
professional services are now seeing the
impact of that disruption.
>> So from your perspective do you avoid
that heat-seeking missile or do you
follow it? Are you the ambulance chaser
that goes in and tries to pick up the
pieces after it's already done its
thing? I think we're more looking to
sort through when everyone's throwing
the baby out with the proverbial
bathwater. Uh you know, who may be more
um you know competitive in the context
of whether it's a software company,
whether it's a private credit entity or
what have you. So I think the market
overreacts to these things naturally.
The pendulum always swings too far in in
both directions. Uh and I think it
presents some opportunities for
intermediate to longer term investors.
things are moving so quickly, so fast,
and that's something you just mentioned,
alluded to, and I think that's a major
feature that we need to discuss.
Typically, we embrace creative
destruction in this country. It's a
feature of American dynamism, or at
least it used to be. Now, it's moving so
quickly. I just wonder how much
constraint there will be down in a place
like Washington DC, how much push back
we'll actually find.
>> Well, I think I think the manifestation
of that's going to be in the labor
market and and you've got these trends
of stronger economic growth. a big chunk
of the economic growth was AI
infrastructure investment, right? So you
you you saw good economic growth the
second half of last year with virtually,
you know, not not zero job growth or
very little job growth in the second
half of last year. So you I think there
are going to be important public policy
and political decisions to be made when
some of this disruption starts to
manifest itself in a in a tough labor
market.
>> Does that influence how you think about
investing over the long term through
this cycle?
>> It does. I mean, you've got more
volatility. I wrote about in a recent
piece I did around you know just wider
ranges of outcomes of policy uh you're
seeing o over the you know recent
election periods and I think that
becomes more challenging for businesses
to plan longer term. So we're seeing
businesses themselves be shorter term in
their thinking because policy and
regulatory issues may change. Think
about you know regulatory policies
during the Biden administration now in
the Trump administration was almost a
180. So that makes it harder and that's
I think contributed to the short-
termism in markets which frustrating for
us because again we like to think longer
term maybe one threeyear three to
fiveyear type horizons. Uh it's uh it's
tough given the the volatility in
policy.
>> Does that potential overhang of
regulation of a policy prescription that
could potentially constrain some of this
tech development also constrain the
potential for big tech to really be the
leadership in the equity space? Well, I
think I think regulation is coming to to
AI and uh and and tech in general. The
more power that tech has in the economy,
I think the more traction it they're
going to get from politicians and and
and consumers concerned about some of
the excesses that that could occur. So,
you know, the balance between federal
regulation versus state regulation, for
instance, in AI is going to be important
determinant of how the US remains a
leader in AI or whether it gets dragged
down by a patch quilt of state
regulation. How much is this part of why
Chinese technology, South Korean
technology, Asian technology in general
is getting bit up to a much more
significant degree than US technology
right now.
>> I think those dynamics are going to come
to uh every economy that that you see
disruption. So uh obviously the
regulatory framework in China is going
to be different than the US. uh but but
you are you are seeing these the the
sort of China dominated tech ecosystem
and a western de and really us dominated
tech ecosystem and they're probably not
going to not going to interact much but
but I think the dynamics affecting the
labor market are going to be similar
over the over the long term and whether
you're a Chinese regulator whether US
regular have to deal with it
>> Joe where you finding diversification at
the moment
>> well value small cap non- US so that's
really where we've been overweight and
that you know that rotation has has uh
has
>> Can I just pick up on the non US piece
of that? Lisa just talked about the
gains we've seen in places like South
Korea. Is it still just the same trade
as US tech or is it different?
>> South South Korea, Taiwan, these are
very narrow markets, only a couple
stocks driving the indices. So I I would
think a more broad-based market like
Japan is more more broadly investable uh
to diversify uh from what again has been
working over the last last couple years.
We're not negative on the US, but it's
just we think this rotation and and the
growth and the broadening out is going
to be important. Is Japan working
despite high yields or because of high
yields?
>> I think Japan has shifted from a
deflationary regime to an inflationary
regime which is a hugely important issue
for equity markets. You combine that
with with constructive fiscal policy. We
are certainly looking at the JGB market
because if that gets unhinged, you know,
that could that could derail this
growth, but
>> not yet. uh but uh but but probably most
importantly in Japan is the emphasis on
driving better shareholder returns and a
focus on improving returns on equity for
their companies which has really been a
secular trend that we've played for the
last few years
>> a big push since the governor Kota days
and aren't they yeah 10 years ago
>> really continuation of economics
>> without a doubt Joe it's good to see you
thank you very much Joe M of Newberger
Burma the president Japanese equities up
by 15% close to that level year to date
>> and guess what Japanese bond bond yields
have actually been falling. They fell at
some 10 basis points in the long end
overnight. Why? Because people have more
confidence in the idea of who is going
to govern and how they're going to
govern. And frankly, the prime minister
has come out pushing back against some
of the profleacy of fiscal spending
plans in the past. So, right now,
actually, it is exactly the opposite of
what people thought if she consolidated
her majority.
>> Some better news out of Japan, let's put
it that way. Elsewhere, states side,
equities up by a quarter of 1% on the
S&P 500. With an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. AI company Anthropic nearing
the completion of a deal to raise more
than $20 billion. Sources are telling us
here at Bloomberg the funding round is
co-led by investors including Peter
Teal's founders fund de Shaw and
Dragoner Investment Group. Anthropic is
set to be valued at about $350 billion
and the announcement could come as early
as this week.
President Donald Trump says he told
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu that he intends to press ahead
on talks with Iran. In a truth social
post, Trump said nothing definitive was
reached during their meeting in
Washington, but he insists his
preference is to reach a deal with
Tehran. Netanyahu's office says the two
leaders agreed to continue coordinating
closely.
New York's Waldorf Historia is getting
put up for sale. Sources tell us here at
Bloomberg the Chinese owners are selling
it only months after reopening following
renovations. [music] Real estate
investment bank is still secured is
expected to bring the hotel to market on
behalf of the owners. [music]
And that is your blue brief. John
Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
later this hour in about 30 minutes
time. Up next, the morning calls plus
Devon Ryan of [music] Citizens pushing
back on the AI disruption narrative.
That conversation up next live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
If you look at the start of this bull
market, the only two sectors that have
outperformed [music] the S&P 500 have
been communication services and
information technology. the place where
the hyperscalers reside. We don't think
the next really intense episode of
rebalancing [music] happens until the AI
trade reaches a crescendo which we think
is still well off into the future.
>> Julian Emanuel of Everore weighing in on
this equity market. But I think Julian
over at Evercore has a price tag on the
S&P of 7750. And his argument [music] is
basically that if you want the index
level to have another 10% of upside into
year end, you need those names, those
big tech players to participate, which
is why he thinks the leadership will
return at some point later this year,
even if he does like other parts of the
equity market as well. Speaking of the
equity market, equity futures right now
in the S&P 500 heading into data later
about 15 minutes away. Futures positive
[music] by 210 of 1% on the S&P, higher
by.16% on the NASDAQ. There's that move
in the Russell, the 2000 up by 0.55%.
In the bond market, yields just a little
bit lower. We're down a basis point at
the front end of the curve 350 [music]
after repricing high yesterday following
much stronger than anticipated jobs
data. That's the market setup. Let's get
you some single names. Some morning
calls. First up, City raising its price
target on Cisco to 90 citing multiple
expansion for AI stocks. That name's
getting hammered. We're down 7%. Your
second call from JP Morgan downing craft
hinds to underway saying ongoing
challenges could weigh on volumes
through the year. That name is softer
lighter lower by 1.5%. And finally,
Piper Sandler reiterating its call on
new mark as overweight saying even with
AI fears driving a sell-off, its bull
case is unchanged. Let's stick with AI.
Wealth management firm struggling to
recover from this week's sell-off. The
chart swap CEO Rick Worester pushing
back on the narrative that AI is bad for
business.
For us, AI is a real accelerant. We're
best positioned in the financial
services industry to help clients with
AI because of our size, our scale, are
at the depth of our relationships, and
all the data we have, which is a key
ingredient to uh to winning an in AI. AI
is a is a is a beneficial to our
business, not a not a hindrance, and
it's going to help us flourish and grow
and serve clients in new ways uh and
ultimately lead to the growth of the
company. Devon Ryan, the director of
fintech research at Citizens, believes
the AI vigilantes are overreacting,
writing, "This feels far more like
evolution than mass disruption. What
these headlines ultimately point to is a
familiar pressure point pricing." Deon
joins us now for more. Deon, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> I could sense that Rick Worster was
slightly annoyed by the price action.
I've noticed from other research notes
that other analysts are too. I shared
this quote a little bit earlier from
another bank. The generalist money flows
are responding to the rapid AI product
rate of change dynamic overwhelming the
deeper thinking fundamental software
sector specialists that was about
software in the last week. You're the
deep thinker, the analyst that covers
these single names. Do you feel like the
tourists have arrived and taken over
your sector?
>> That's what it seemed like earlier this
week. Um, you know, AI is not a new
theme and it's something that I think is
going to be a really big deal. So, I
think they got that part right, but in
terms of it being a big negative, at
least in the near term, I I think is
absolutely wrong. And and when I kind of
go backwards, I mean, I started covering
the space over 20 years ago. There was
300,000 financial adviserss. Today,
there's about 300,000 financial
advisors. So there's the same number of
adviserss, yet the number of assets is
up 7x. So these advisers need tools.
They need technology. They need ways to
do more with the customers, drive
efficiency, and be more productive. And
AI is an area that I think a lot of
these companies are already using behind
the scenes to help drive productivity,
drive efficiency. And we think that'll
continue. But this is a non-commoditized
financial service. you know, fees are
opaque and uh it's going to take a long
time to really disrupt this industry.
>> Well, let's keep it going. So, we've
seen this cascade from industry to
industry, wave after wave over the last
week or so. What's the biggest thing
that people are getting wrong?
>> Well, I just think that that near-term
there's any impact. I actually think
that it's the opposite. Like, these
companies are going to make more money,
not less money, using AI, and that's
what they're getting wrong. I think
people are just going to the lowest
common denominator of AI disrupts
everything, so therefore bad. And I
think it's right that AI is going to
change this industry over the next 10
years, 20 years where you people are
going to have to use these tools and
there will be more automated advice just
like you know 10 years ago 20 years ago
the robo advisor were coming for wealth
managers and we saw zero fee compression
from that. It just what it did is
lowered the bar for people to get access
and I think that's what AI will enable
advisers to do. Cover more clients,
cover more assets, uh, and and really
just have the tools they need to, um,
have that personal relationship, which I
think the personal relationship is what
people are willing to pay for.
>> You use the word commoditized and you
talked about how fees are still pretty
opaque and that there's a sense that
that is going to be difficult to really
erode into. Isn't there a demand in an
increasingly commoditized world to have
more transparency to drive down those
fees, especially if there is an
increasing amount of the job that can be
done with a computer program?
>> Yeah. The way I think about Lisa is
that, you know, every person has
different needs. So, if you're covering
a couple hundred clients as a financial
adviser, each one of your clients has
different goals, different family
situation, and so they're, you know,
what you're what you're charging them
for is different for each client. You
maybe have different fee structures on
different clients based on what you're
doing for them. So therefore, it doesn't
lend itself. These aren't fees that are
put up on a billboard. They're cover the
retail brokers when they went from $9.99
to $4.99 to zero because everybody's
competing competing on this commoditized
service. When you're working with
families, you're working for their goals
for their complex lives. You know, it's
it's less about the fee and it's more
about the relationship and the trust and
what you can do for them. So again,
these are things, you know, people are
going to work with their adviserss. at
some point things may change but you
know it's it's to me this is like
decades whereas there's a lot of other
areas within financial services are
going to change faster as we go to this
kind of lowest common denominator
>> but I guess this doesn't this point to
the fear that people have in the wealth
management uh unit but also the optimism
that people have elsewhere that if you
have a greater degree of transparency
and you have a greater degree of desire
for data that can then be plugged into
different programs that can be far
smarter than I can about exactly
compiling it and giving you a narrative
it's going to cause a much faster faster
pace of evolution that's going to really
uh compress some of these profit margins
dramatically in a way that previous
technological shifts just haven't done.
>> Yeah. Well, I think at the financial
service level, the highest level, that
is true. Um but you have to go through
business by business. So in wealth where
you're dealing with people and you have
a person involved in that, uh the
technology itself is going to do more.
is going to provide better advice in
some cases going to allow adviserss uh
or or without an adviser to really lower
the bar for people to get access to all
different types of you know asset
liability strategies that were reserved
for you know family offices and the
highest net worth and I think that's
going to change but advisers are going
to be able to use these tools to do more
with their customers that's on the
revenue side think about the expense
side the back offices and all the areas
of expenses these firms have where AI is
already call centers and uh it's it's
automating tasks that you had a lot of
people doing and we've already been
seeing that. So my point is this isn't a
new concept. These these companies the
largest wealth managers Schwab Morgan
Stanley Raymond James they've been
working on this for years. So this isn't
a new concept.
>> Are they going to employ a lot fewer
people?
>> So I I I think that over time there will
be fewer people and I think that uh what
the technology is doing will uh
essentially automate a lot of jobs that
that people have. So I think that's
where you get mass efficiencies and it
really also just repositions people. So
advisers for example a lot of advisor's
jobs over time have been the manual
tasks things they don't like to do you
know it's it's order entry it is back
office that even the adviser is doing
this is going to enable them to go out
get more clients do more with their
existing clients spend more time with
them where they can people want to pay
for that personal relationship they want
the concierge and not everybody's going
to want to pay for that and they get the
all digital experience and they already
have that today AI will enable that but
on the full service if you want the
concierge I think people are willing to
pay a small fee for that
non-commoditized relationship
>> if all of these companies are employing
fewer people. Where does the asset
growth come from?
>> So asset growth comes from I mean I
guess the question is do assets
appreciate? So you go back to you know I
started covering the space in the early
2000s and markets are up 7x you know
>> they're not managing markets they're
managing people aren't they? And
people's wealth
>> they're managing people's wealth but
there's an inflationary aspect to
people's wealth and also you know if you
go back 10 20 years it was about stock
picking right you know advisers were
picking stocks helping them beat the
benchmark. Today it's about all your
financial li your your assets your
liabilities you know how many kids you
have going to college when are you
trying to retire by and it's very that's
the whole point this is not you put it
into a cookie cutter box and you get an
outcome it's everybody you know you have
family members sick and so you have a
lot of things that are constantly
happening where people have their
advisor that they've gone through a lot
with and you know is again the next
generation may change this big
generational transfer of tens of
trillions of dollars that's going to
potentially different that's happening
over the next you know three decades so
for the couple of decades as long as the
people are alive that have the money
today and they have their trust
relationship I there's a high switching
cost to exiting your advisor relation
>> forgive me for taking this to the
extreme but I think it's something we've
got to think about over the long term if
fewer and fewer people are holding the
assets because fewer and fewer people
are being employed by these industries
isn't the government coming after a
slice of all of this
>> uh that's a whole another uh question
John I mean I is the government going to
uh look to put higher taxes on or some
other type of um you know excise if you
will uh potentially in the future but I
just based on where we are right now I
think that this is an industry where uh
you know technology is actually needed
and you would say you know it's slow
moving because like I said there's
300,000 advisors today than there were
you know 20 years ago but technology is
going to improve the process for
advisers and I think their customers and
ultimately lead to better financial
outcomes too so that that's the I think
the good news is to Lisa's point you're
going to get better advice you're going
to get better products and ultim
Ultimately, advisers are going to have
to do more to earn the fee that they get
today.
>> Deon Smart, it's great to get the push
back. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much. Deon Ryan there of
Citizens pushing back against some of
the disruption we've seen in that sector
over the past few days.
>> You brought up government regulation. I
found a particular press release that
came out earlier this morning.
Absolutely fascinating. Anthropic coming
out saying that they're donating $20
million to public first action talking
about how some 69% of Americans think
the government is not doing enough to
regulate the uses of AI. We agree it's
being adopted very quickly. You need to
get on the ball and actually create
regulation. So, pause. A company that
right now is raising billions
[clears throat] upon billions of dollars
to create AI programs that are going to
potentially disrupt millions of jobs is
coming out and saying to the government,
please regulate us. Please explain.
>> What's it say at the top of the
statement?
>> Try Claude.
>> There you go. [laughter]
>> But it just but it it highlights, you
know, how big of a concern this is. Is
this a PR move? Is this trying to get
ahead of the regulation to try to
influence it? Is it something to stay in
the public imagination as that
heat-seeking missile, as Joe said,
continues to go after each industry?
These are the questions that this uh
really raises. But it's fascinating that
they put this out, especially today.
>> The change is real. I'm not here to push
back against that. The change is real. I
don't think anyone should be naive. I do
think though, you should be eyes wide
open about what's happening, Kit. This
is the road show for the IPO. These
companies are raising a tremendous
amount of money over the next 12 months.
Don't wait for the opening bout. This is
the road show. It's happening. A lot of
this is marketing. Some of it's real,
but a lot of it is marketing.
>> I'm just trying Claude. Sorry. Don't
mind me.
>> See, there you go.
>> I'm over here.
>> Breaking jobless claims up next. Matt
Lazetti will break it down over at
Deutsche Bank. He's here to react from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. 60 minutes away from the
opening bow. Seconds away from some
economic data. The scores look like this
going into jobless claims. Equities
firmer by a quarter of 1% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ up by 0.2 on the Russell
2000. The small caps high by 0.7 in the
bond market. Yields repricing higher in
yesterday's session following stronger
than expected payrolls. This morning
lower by a basis point at the front end
down by almost three at the very long
end of the curve. 30s down to 47789.
Here's the jobless claims number and it
stays somewhat elevated relative to the
previous week. 227 that is the wrong
kind of upside surprise just on the
margin. Our median estimate was 223 here
at Bloomberg and the continuing claims
slightly higher as well. So jobless
claims coming in at 227,000.
The survey was for 223 and the previous
number a revised 232.
So yields stay just a little bit lower,
down a basis point at the front end and
down by a little more than two at the
very long end of the curve.
>> Yeah, continuing claims popped up to the
highest going back about a month. So
that's what some people are going to be
watching to get a sense of just how much
people are taking a longer time getting
a job. Look, this just goes to the
inconclusivity of what we got yesterday.
If it was such a rip roaring labor
market, why are uh initial jobless
claims ticking up just ever so slightly
week after week?
>> Levels versus change levels. The
four-week average of around 220 is not a
big problem
>> in any way, shape, or form. If you look
across history, 220 is a pretty low
number for jobless claims, but I'm with
you. Change it has crept higher over the
past few weeks. And when you compare it
to the blowout payrolls report
yesterday, this is why some people are
poking holes in a bull case for the US
economy.
>> And if you take a look at the revisions
for the prior month, you can see that
that actually was revised upward just a
touch. Nothing dramatic. Again, we're
not raising a red flag or saying that
the world's on fire. 232,000 versus 231.
Nonetheless, there is a confirmation
here that things are not completely
rosy, which is the reason why people are
saying, look, you might get some
stability, but it isn't exactly a
runaway labor market that's going to
speak to acceleration in growth.
>> To weigh in on all of this and the
current down in Washington DC to break
down the data and as Lisa pointed out,
there's no big fireworks, no drama here.
What stands out for you?
>> Maybe a little bit of a reality check.
Uh Jonathan as you mentioned it was me
it was expected to stabilize uh this
reading but it's come in a little bit
above expectations and the previous
month's been revised up as well suggests
that you know the labor market soften
story hasn't gone away despite
yesterday's bumper number. So I would
say something of a reality check and
also by the way I think in in the in the
wake of yesterday's numbers there's been
more focus as as the day went on on the
revisions. Yes, the January number was
strong, but the revisions for the
totality of last year, as we now know,
mean it was the worst hiring year
outside of a recession since 2003. So,
that puts a lot of question marks on is
January signaling a turning point. H are
we turning a corner in the labor market,
that stabilization story, or is it going
to be something of a blip that will
ultimately be revised back? And when you
get a jobless claims this morning, as
you say, they're not a game changer in
and of themselves, but it's probably a
reminder that the the soft labor market
story hasn't totally gone away. Governor
Myron responded to the strong jobs data
yesterday and and he made the point that
yes, that's strong, but the reason I
want to cut interest rates is because
what I think is going to happen with
inflation that takes us to CPI tomorrow
morning. Are you expecting to see more
signs of disinflation building in this
economy?
>> I think that's the broad expectation. I
mean, Governor Myin has certainly been,
you know, bit of an outlier as you know,
John. He's been calling for deeper rate
cuts and he's putting a lot on the fact
that rental inflation will come off much
faster and he sees much faster
disinflation than others do. But the
inflation story tomorrow is expected to
be somewhat intact. But I think there's
no immediate or at least Fed watchers
don't see any immediate change on the
horizon for Fed policy near term. Rates
seem to be on hold. Policy makers are
signaling they're comfortable where
rates are at the moment. And I think
over the coming months, we're very much
going to be on a wait and see,
especially on the labor market front.
>> Ander, good to see you. And Karen down
in Washington DC. We'll catch up with
Andrew again tomorrow when we get
inflation data 8:30 tomorrow morning. If
you're just joining us, welcome. Upside
surprise, as we often say with claims,
the wrong kind of upside surprise, 227,
the estimate in our survey, 223. That's
down just a little bit from a revised
232 for the previous week. With us
around the table, Matt Lzetti of
Deutsche Bank. Matt, welcome to the
program. I'm going to start with a bit
of jargon. You're going to translate.
What is residual seasonality? What is
that? That that phrase gets thrown
around on Wall Street. What does that
mean?
>> I love starting with residual
seasonality 30. So um you know we have
we get data uh that comes in and it's
non-seasonally adjusted. The government
agencies go through this process of
seasonally adjusting it and essentially
you're trying to take out the typical
seasonal patterns that you would have
throughout the year. They're not able to
do to do that perfectly and so what you
tend to see in some of these data is in
different parts of the year you have
stronger data or weaker data. Over the
past several years you've seen stronger
inflation data to start the year. I
would add that you've actually seen
stronger labor market data to start the
year as well. So that you know the
upside surprise we got yesterday we had
gotten upside surprises in prior years
as well. From my perspective and I think
if you you know translate this for the
Fed, they should not get overly excited
about a a month or two of very strong
data. They should also not get overly
depressed or pessimistic about a month
or two of very weak data as you saw in
the back half of last year.
>> So if I want a clean read, forgive me to
get a clean read on the labor market.
Where do I go?
>> I I that's that's certainly a
difficulty. I I think you want to be
smoothing through over longer time
periods. So inflation, you know, I think
there's all this uh focus on three-month
annualized changes. I think that's not
the right measure that you want to be
looking at. I think the year-over-year
rate, it's smooth. So all the all the
seasonal differences that we get. And so
therefore, it's giving you a little bit
of a better read of underlying trends in
the inflation data.
>> And what does that say? I mean, in terms
of just how much you get job growth that
does stabilize at the same time that you
get inflation that's starting to come
down. I mean, is that picture confirmed?
When you smooth out the data, you take
the crystal ball, you shake it up, you
put a little patina on it. Is that what
you get?
>> Yeah. I want to paint a little bit of a
a brighter picture of the labor market
data than I think we were we were just
presenting. I think as you look at
jobless claims, I think it's pretty
clear that the weather has impacted
those over the past two weeks. So last
week initial jobless claims, half of the
rise was in New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania. I think we could all
relate to that being being in this area
that the snow that we've had. Half of
the rise in continuing claims this
morning, which is a week delayed, was
also driven by by those three states. So
I think we're still working through some
weather effects. I think as you broadly
look at the labor market at this point
in time, um the unemployment rate has
come back down to 4.3%. The quits rate,
which is a very good measure of labor
market slack, has basically been
unchanged over the past 12 or 18 months.
You have a layoff rate which remains
well below where it was before the
pandemic. So you still have this
somewhat uncomfortable environment of
low hiring and low firing, but it's a
labor market that's been pretty stable
over the past 12 months.
>> So where is the hiring coming from? And
is it good enough to sustain this? And I
ask this given the fact that we're
talking about wealth management
potentially laying people off or not
hiring people because of artificial
intelligence. The fact that we've seen
that roll through the tech sector. We're
seeing that sort of sector by sector.
How much do you start seeing that with
wage pressure that really doesn't speak
to this consumption boom and uh you know
real acceleration backdrop that so many
people are talking about. I
>> I think that's one of the holes that
people might poke in in yesterday's jobs
report. So you had you know 170,000 or
so jobs added in the private sector
about 130,000 coming from education and
healthcare workers. That's been the
trend. You have this outside support
coming from this from this particular
sector. But I would actually add uh the
diffusion index which measures kind of
more broadly where are we getting jobs
from picked up to a two-year high. You
saw goods producing industries actually
add the most since mid2023 yesterday.
Manufacturing picked up, construction
picked up. So there was some early
evidence that maybe there's a broadening
out of job gains that are taking place.
on AI specifically. I think there's been
a lot of focus on the younger age
groups, that 20 to 24 age group, uh
particularly those that are college
educated. Uh I think really importantly
in the data yesterday, you saw the 20 to
24 unemployment rate. It's down two
percentage points over the past several
months and basically hasn't risen over
the past six or six or 12 months. So
that was a positive development I think
from yesterday.
>> You mentioned the improving breadth
outside of just healthcare. Are you
seeing data elsewhere that corresponds
with that that supports it? I I think
when you look at the the ISM
manufacturing index as an example that
has shown some some strength as of late.
Some of the survey based indicators have
looked a little bit better. But look,
it's it's it's all tenative. I'm not you
don't want you don't want to kind of
ring the all clear signal here for the
Fed. Um I think for the Fed, you know,
as we look over the next several months,
yesterday's report, I think for me, was
strong enough where it says now if you
get one week jobs report, that's not
sufficient for them to cut rates.
>> The bar's higher.
>> The bar is now higher as you look ahead.
The market responded with that by taking
out rate cuts over the next two
meetings. The market's still building in
this big premium when Kevin Walsh comes
in as the Fed chair in June that that
all of a sudden he's going to start
cutting rates at that point.
>> Do you think he will?
>> No.
>> Why?
>> I I think uh you know there's there's
two things that are ongoing here. One is
the reaction function of the committee
and the reaction function may be
somewhat more dovish for the new Fed
chair, but he's coming into a committee
that at this point you sees very good
reasons, I think, to keep rates on hold.
The second part of this will just be the
data that the Fed has to be responding
to the incoming data and I think is you
get evidence that the labor market is
stabilized over the next several months
and with inflation core PCE which is
what they're targeting uh probably
remaining between 2.75 and 3% uh it's
pretty clear from their dual mandate
objectives they're missing very clearly
on one but the labor market looks much
closer on the other.
>> I'm thinking of uh what we hear but but
but you know what about the other side
of the mandate? Maybe they're not
missing just as much as they uh have
been expecting given the fact that you
see rents coming down in a significant
way. McDonald's is cutting prices for
value meals. Pepsi is cutting prices in
order to bring in more more customers. I
mean, isn't there a potential
disinflationary rush that we could see
as early as tomorrow that could
potentially give credence to some of the
doves on the on the committee? I
>> I think as you look ahead, there is a
potential disinflationary trend that
that's in place. I think shelter will
will be key to that. One of the
surprises in the last CPI print was
actually that shelter and owner's
equivalent rent bounced back more
strongly than anticipated. So we'll have
to see whether or not that that that
continues tomorrow. I I I think bigger
picture you know we are expecting
disinflation shelter is is part of that.
Core goods inflation I think should be
part of that as well. We think tariff
rates are going to come down over the
course of this year continue to come
down. Uh but you know the Fed has missed
their inflation target by a wide margin
for now five years and the labor market
is very close to what they think full
employment is at this point in time. Uh
with that context I think it makes a lot
of sense to them be cautious about
adjusting policy to lower
>> and yet they cut three times at the end
of last year and Steve Rashuta of Missou
was on the program earlier suggesting
that in six months that will lead to
another economic pickup. What's your
thought on the long and variable lacks?
Just how long are they? How variable are
they? Yeah, I think you know the
analysis that's done there and for the
US monetary policy form we did some work
on this uh last year. You know those
long and variable lags that Milton
Friedman talked about we're we're kind
of in year-over-year data and the
cumulative effect over time. Yes, they
might may might peak in about 18 months.
When you look at the you know the impact
on quarterly data, it's pretty short. So
it tends to happen you know over the
first or second quarter. I think as you
look at financial conditions today the
Fed's own metrics tell you that
financial conditions are adding a
percentage point to growth over the next
year. That's the easiest that they've
been since 2022 before they started
raising rates. You have fiscal policy
which becomes more supportive over the
course of this year. You know, people
worried about AI capex might be coming
down. We're getting upside surprises
from those companies there. So, yes, I
think the economy has a lot of support
at this point.
>> We've seen a series of upside surprises
there over the last week. Matt, it's
good to see you. Thank you, sir. A
clinic as always. Matt Lazelli there of
Deutsche Bank equities session highs.
We're up by 0.4% 4% on the S&P 500
within striking distance not too far
away from all-time highs on the S&P.
With an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief, let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
Hey John. Thank you. Recapping the data
we just got. Jobless claims coming in at
227,000.
That's just an edge above estimates
called for 223,000.
It's a slight tick down from the
previous week that saw claims revised to
232,000.
Continuing claims also remaining
elevated coming in at 1.86 million.
[music] That's more than what estimates
had called for.
New is buying Schroers for about 13.5
billion. The acquisition is creating one
of the world's largest active asset
managers with nearly $2.5 trillion
dollar of assets. It ends more than two
centuries of independence for the UK's
largest standalone asset manager.
Although the Schroeders brand will be
retained.
Morgan Stanley CEO Ted Pick getting a
big raise. The company boosting his pay
by 32% for 2025 to $45 million after the
record year for the firm. Morgan Stanley
shares surged more than 40% last year,
far surpassing the performance of the
S&P 500. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Not bad, Ted. Not bad. I know he's
watching it this time, so you know
that's
>> congratulations. Buy yourself a nice uh
a nice bottle of champagne.
>> I think lunch is on you, Ted. I think
that's fair to say. Coming up next on
the program, George Borie of Allspring
looking ahead to tomorrow's CPI print.
Plus, Jihara has your morning movers.
Cole [music] stocks getting a boost from
new support from the Trump
administration. We're up in the
pre-market there from New York City.
You're watching Bloombo TV.
>> [music]
>> the opening about 44 minutes away.
Equity futures session highs up by 0.4
on the S&P high by 0.8 on the Russell
2000. And that rotation to [music] small
caps that our performance rather
continues in the bond market. 2-year,
10ear, 30-year yield shaping up as
follows. The 2-year [music] down almost
the basis point. No drama here. Down at
the long end by two basis points as well
on 30s to 478. [music] A lot of issuance
through the week particularly across the
long end of the curve tens and 30s.
>> Yesterday we got some tens that did not
go that well actually. uh we saw dealers
take down a bigger proportion over the
overall sale and you saw it really
cheapen up after it [music] came to
market which raises this issue of the
peripheral demand for long-end
treasuries. I got to [music] say getting
a boost today from Japan and what's
going on over there. So yes, it could be
what people expect about US monetary
policy, but I always have one eye on
what's [music] going on with Japanese
>> as you should. As you should. $25
billion of 30-year bonds coming to
market later on this afternoon. So look
out for that. As we count you down to
the opening bell, let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Jihara has more. Hey, Yihara.
>> Hi, John. Big drop for Icon shares this
morning. Down 32% now in the pre-market
after the company announced it is
launching an internal accounting [music]
probe. This is a healthc care services
contractor company and it's not a small
firm. It has a $10 billion [music]
market cap, but what they're saying is
preliminary fightings show it may have
overstated revenue in 2023 and 2024 by
less than 2%. While on the surface
that's not huge, it is causing some
uncertainty because ICON has pulled
guidance and delayed its uh results.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Cisco shares
also falling in the pre-market down 6
and a4% after it became the latest
company to warn us that rising memory
chip prices will eat [music] into the
bottom line. Uh that matters because
Cisco of course is the world's largest
maker of networking equipment and it
uses those components across a wide
range of products and that overshadowing
what was otherwise a solid report by
[music] Cisco. And we move on to coal
stocks. They are rallying in the
pre-market after the Trump
administration uh announced new support
for the industry as they lean more and
more on this energy source. We are
seeing Peabody Energy up 4%. The White
House just yesterday ordered the
Pentagon to buy electricity from coal
plants uh to power their military
operations and they announced new
fundings to upgrade existing facilities.
John
>> Yhara, [music] thank you. Thanks for the
update. Some movers there for you going
into the open and bow. Heading into the
opening bow, here's the trading diary of
the week ahead at 1 p.m. Eastern time.
That 30-year bond sale. Look out for
that. Plus the Fed speak from Logan and
Myan. Tomorrow, the CPI data, the last
big [music] data point going into the
weekend. As we come out the other side
of things, remember long weekend here
state side. Closed on Monday for the
President's Day holiday. Wednesday, we
get some Fed minutes and a week today
earnings from Walmart. The first big
retailer to report, I believe Costco and
Target is early March. But that's going
to be an important read on this consumer
and the broader economy.
>> Walmart has been one of the top
performers over the past year, but also
the past 5 years and 10 years as they
morph [music] into something of a tech
company alongside a consumer spending
company. Do they see the same trend that
McDonald's sees? How are they catering
to a low-end consumer at the same time
that they're broadening their business?
>> Let's keep it on the data. Traders
looking ahead to the latest read on
inflation with [music] CPI due tomorrow.
George Borie of Allspring Global writing
the following. With about $1 trillion
dollars of stimulus here marked for the
first half of 26, the US economy could
overheat leading to an uptick in
inflation. George joins us now for more.
George, welcome. Can you put some
numbers on overheating? What does that
actually look like?
>> Yeah, no, it's it's, as you've just u
heard, we we've got some mixed data.
We've seen mixed data. We saw a pretty
solid payroll report yesterday. Um but
as you just mentioned you know some of
the retail numbers are mixed but we know
that there's there's significant amount
of of stimulus coming into the system
between uh tax cuts tax refunds tax
incentives and also you know a very very
significant spend on on on the AI front
that clearly is underpinning the
economy. Now as you point out you know
there are some signs of of disinflation
and we are seeing disinflation kind of
gradually unfold across the economy and
this is tomorrow's print is the
expectation is is that you know that CPI
is is likely to show another small notch
lower. We're not convinced that can be
sustained and and to the extent the um
the strength that we're seeing in the
economy does show some signs of
broadening out. And while the the labor
market still has some pockets of
weakness, we start to see a broadening
there and we see good strong corporate
profitability continuing to unfold over
the course of the year. These are enough
to cause both uh growth to to to to
expand and to broaden as well as to keep
inflation elevated. And and that is one
of our our major concerns as we go into
this year is that there's an
overwhelming consensus that disinflation
is the the this the sort of the path
forward and and that it's going to be a
strong and accelerating path. We don't
believe that's necessary true
necessarily true and that we're not
inflation's not sticky it's stuck and
it's the stuck nature of inflation that
concerns us as bond investors.
>> So George let me jump in. Typically for
a guy like you in fixed income when you
say all those things I would say that
sounds like it's bad for treasuries and
good for credit. The credit piece of it
though is where a question mark is now
because some of the stimulus this year
some of the tailwinds are coming out of
the tech sector because they're
borrowing and they're spending even
more. So how do you think about credit
against that backdrop?
>> Yeah. No, credit is is is doing well in
in the aggregate. You know, broad
inflation, you know, sort of modest
inflation, if you will. This kind of to
call it two and three/4ers, 3% type of
inflation is actually a pretty healthy
operating environment for the broad
credit platform. So that companies are
earning, you know, pretty good pretty
good um profits and and and their cost
of funding remains fairly well
contained. However, as you point out in
the tech sector, you know, there's a
significant increase in spending.
There's a significant increase in
borrowing. All the super the
hyperscalers are borrowing to build out
the sort of five to 10 trillion dollar
infrastructure spend for for AI that is
coming at the expense of of some credit
spread widening it within the sector and
then starts to rebench rebenchmark other
sectors as investors look to the
alternatives. However, concentration
risk does start to creep into bond
investor behavior and consideration
because as the AI spend broadens out and
increases,
investors are being asked to lend more
and more and more and we do start to
reach limits as to how much company how
much investors are willing to lend and
how concentrated investors are willing
to allow their portfolios to become. And
George, this excites
starting to emerge.
>> But George, this is a problem for the
investment grade side, right? When you
look at some of the issuance, so you
might say, okay, we'll go into high
yield, go into some of the more cyclally
sensitive areas. At the same time, what
we're seeing there is increasing
disruption risk. So, which do you
prefer? The concentration risk of
investment grade or the potential
disruption risk of high yield?
>> You can pick your spots and and so I
think on the disruption side, you are
seeing some degrees of overreaction. So
our bias would be really to take
advantage of those when we see selloffs,
when we see specific sectors come under
pressure and you start to see kind of
weakness emerge from a from a credit
perspective. On the funding side, you
have to be very selective. There are
both maturities that look attractive,
but then there are also issuers that you
may think have a pretty good competitive
advantage from a funding perspective. So
we like this volatility actually. It
creates a lot of opportunity within our
credit funds, within our investment
process, and it allows you to kind of
pick your spots, if you will. And so
this very, very compressed, this tight
tight spread environment is showing an
increasing amount of dispersion in an
otherwise overall tight environment.
That's a good opportunity for us as bond
investors, as active investors, to pick
our spots, to align portfolios with
companies that both have a competitive
advantage so they can withstand or
accelerate in the new AI environment,
but also lend to those companies that
are spending on projects and products
and and environments that we think have
good long-term value. That's a great
bond picking environment that allows you
to excel. It allows you to create
diversity in the portfolio and really
set up your bond stream of coupons so
that there's a lot of consistency as you
move forward.
>> Hey George, appreciate the pitch. It's
good to hear from you. George Bory there
of Allspring Global on the fixed income
market losing count the amount of guests
that come on this program in the last
hour and mentioned sticky inflation for
the year ahead. And this seems to be a
theme for half of the people. And then
the other people say it's going to be
rapid disinflation that leads to the Fed
to cut rates three times this year
>> led by shelter
>> which is the reason why you have this
average that belies the dispersion that
we're seeing under the hood.
>> And that's the promotional material for
tomorrow morning when we count you down
to CPI Friday. CPI Friday just around
the corner 8:30 Eastern time for that
data coming up tomorrow. Looking forward
to catching up with Peter Cheer of
Academy Securities, Andrew Hodenhorse of
City, Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management, [music] and the Republican
Senator Tom Tillis from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.